Tag F2F London 31-03-2016
Present: David, Peter, Travis, TimBL, Andrew, Yves, DKA, Alex, Hadley
Guests: Léonie, Chaals
Scribe: Andrew (AM) David (PM)

### Issue triage

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/110
(Generic Sensor API & Ambient Light Sensor)

TOPIC: Packaging (Yves), http://w3ctag.github.io/packaging-on-the-web/
yves: recently got input from Google as a solution for areas with poor net access.  Signing a collection of resources
...propose to move the spec into the WICG
dka: that demotes the spec from a group that can issue a thing to one that can't
yves: if we leave it where it is nowt will happen
alex: support this move
dka: does it make sense for TAG to retain involement?
alex: +1
dka: there are 14 issues against it, so what's the action? Move Jenny to historical editor, Yves to become editor, transfer repo to WICG
yves: we need to update the published version on /TR and publish it as a Note
... agree with moving the repo
dka: we shouldn't make a fork
yves: we should fork
dka: we could give perms to edit the spec in our repo
... OK let's move the repo to WICG.
... we need to make an update to the existing doc to show it's been superceded
RESOLUTION: we will cede Packaging on the Web to the WICG - Yves to make necessary edits and take on role as active editor for now.


TOPIC: Data on the web (Hadley)
hadley: there are two WGs, one I've actively involved in
... Data on the web best practices is the one I'm charing - https://www.w3.org/2013/dwbp/wiki/Main_Page
... three deliverables: (1) Semantic data usage 
dka: this is academic research?
hadley: not just that, also live data streams.  There's more pre-existing work in academia
... [Dataset usage vocabulary](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/vocab-du.html)
... bar to publication for a WG note is easier than rec track, but WG wants to demo spirit of the rec track 'spirit'
... it's earlier in development than TAG would normally get involved.
dka: are there stakeholders involved in this that aren't academic?
hadly: not enough. Both reviewers are academic, needs more community involvement
(2) [Data quality vocabulary](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/vocab-dqg.html)
hadley: addresses resistance to publish because data isn't perfect
... allows quality of data to be described. Disclaimer.
... people should publish data as 'exhaust' rather than putting a lot of work into it
... we're reusing existing vocabs, attempting not to reinvent wheels
... part of the challenge is 'how to we define quality?'
... ODI's open data certs are hard to boil down into one metric.  A lot depends on use cases.
dka: are ODI participating
hadley: not actively because ODI are not members
dka: I've been trying to encourage ODI to do a membership swap while wearing my extra-small ODI hat
hadley: we'd be very grateful for their help
travis: some of the arrows are styled differently - is there a difference?
hadley: probably an oversight, I'll pass it on
... (3) [Best practices for data on the web](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/bp.html)
... We has to figure out the difference between data on the web and open data
... we wanted data on the web to be available regardless of licencing
travis: it's more open than open data?
hadley: different part of the problem
... comparable to early days of HTML and CSS
... we're continuing to argue about what is in scope
... we have a research heavy population in the group, so focus is specific to things like budgets, commitments etc.
... Not the sort of thing we need in a rec track technical spec
... want to move to unofficial last call in the next few weeks
... the group has been actuvely working on it but it has not had a lot of external review yet.
... it includes topics like provenance, metadata, data preservation, versioning, 
<gluten free muffins, Chaals and Leonie arrive>
... take all the annoying things that mean you have to do work before using other people's data
... quite often data is coming from an existing database or system, or from spreadsheets
andrew: isn't there some terrible data guidance from UKgov?
hadley: not aware, please share
... Open data Institute's approach to quantifying the quality of open data: https://certificates.theodi.org/en/ 
hadley: moving on to spatial data on the web:
... https://www.w3.org/2015/spatial/wiki/Main_Page
... Combining spatial data fro multiple sources
... Semantic sensor network ontology
... they started later than OD on the web. joint group between W3C and Open Geospatial Consortium, made governance difficult
dka: What are the use cases?
hadley: they have a use case document:https://www.w3.org/TR/sdw-ucr/
dka: What industries?  Oil platforms?  Examples?
Chaals: Ordnance Survey, meteorological data
hadley: <lists numerous use cases>
hadley: also 'publishing cultural heritage data'
chaals: eg how the River Thames has moved over time
timbl: is that what this is for?  data over time?
hadley: could be
hadley: we want to record the co-ordinates of an address in three dimensions, eg 'deliver my pizza to the window on the fifth floor'
chaals: mapping the moon?  Mapping things not on Earth has been moved out of scope


TOPIC: ARIA review with special guest Léonie Watson - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/107

Leonie: Want to offer some insight into problems of ARIA, helpful if TAG could take a look
... How much do people know about ARIA
Hadley: I only know the headlines
Leonie: ARIA allows you to provide semantic info where none exists.
... Some HTML elements embed semantic info, eg <h1>
... Some don't, eg div and span, and these are very very common
... A set of divs that look like tabs still just look like divs to a screen reader.  ARIA lets you fill in the gaps
... roles allow you to specify a role from a defined list.  aria- prefixed attributes extend this with specific key-value data
travis: aria-checked would be added to a checkbox, or something pretending to be a checkbox? And ARIA conveys to the screen reader whether it is checked?
Chaals: Yes, there's an API that only screen readers use
leonie: previously readers would infer from heuristics, visual cues.  Platform accessibility APIs made lower level stuff available, less guesswork involved
... from 10 years ago we started using those APIs in browsers
... if you look at a checkbox and query it using an accessibility API it should be represented the same in both places
... reader creates an accessibility tree, ARIA allows you to modify it.  Currently only supported by screen readers
... Speech recognition and other tools don't typoically use ARIA
... ARIA is very complicated, understanding implications of what you are doing is difficult
... you have to understand the relationship between your code, the dom, the browser and the assistive tech
... sometimes you can make things inaccessible by adding ARIA!
dka: what effect would an author be trying to acheive?
leonie: say an accordian, to reveal chunks of content.  Devs understand that heading hierarchy is useful,
... but headings are not interactive, so they make it a button.  Screen reader can now no longer see it as a heading, but can't tell it's interactive
chaals: a accessibility API is like a parallel DOM.  ARIA provides a way to control the things in that DOM
... people get confused between what they already have in their code and what they are modifying by using ARIA
... they put the wrong bit of ARIA in the wrong place
hadley: how is takeup of ARIA?
chaals: very widely used.  Big success, when done right (so be careful about messing with it)
alex: it's helpful to talk about who is using ARIA most.  Component library authors.  Libs are strongly ARIA-hinted.  Investments at framework level filter down.
... the more popular the component is the more pressure to get ARIA right
... ARIA provides half a toolbox, there are a series of intrinsic roles and states in HTML which are not supported by ARIA.  No way to extend it
... there's no assistive technology tree in spec land.  Chrome has one, but it's not standardised
chaals: each OS has one, some have several
andrew: Two problems: Devs need better tools, and need to use ARIA better
alex: plus ARIA is not extensible. I couldn't add my own nouns and verbs.
dka: what's the best way for TAG to engage?
leonie: msft has accessibiity patterns, which are extensible.  Other ideas for making ARIA extensible
dbaron: there's a fourth problem: ARIA can sometimes do things that could be relevant to all users in a way that's doesn't apply to anyone who is not using an accessibility tool.  The difference makes it harder for devs to get it right
chaals: TAG could help with creating extensibility, but main thing is trying to get things back in sync
... there's recognition that a big rethink of ARIA might not be a bad idea.  TAG should engage with that.
... also would be nice to standardise the accessibility trees
... maybe we could get that done in 10 years (if we start now)
... when users write ARIA, you have to write a set of interactions. This experience is broken, you are assuming you know what the user's keyboard is.  Sometimes you don't have enough choice
... ARIA folks are creating hard coded mapping between keys and actions like opening tabs and following links
Leonie: Is ARIA right in it's isolationism
alex: what would be a better way?
Leonie: there could be an attribute to indicate the presence of keyboard shortcuts, but there are still many problems with that
alex: is there a list of requests/requirements from AT vendors?
Leonie: not publicly.  JAWS won't collaborate, but IBM are engaging, reported second hand.  Apple's voiceover and accessibility teams are pretty engaged
Chaals: What would a solution look like?  Something that would work everywhere. You say "this thing is one of those", data widget, picker etc.
... is="" could be it if done properly
... I was hoping you could take ARIA and get there from here, but I don't think it's possible, it will break existing ARIA
... could there be a small number of well defined questions, eg 'does this thing participate in form submission'
travis: ARIA 1.1 lists not only roles and states but also interaction reqs?
Chaals: Yes
travis: So you already have an enumeration of behaviours.  Starting point?
Chaals: Essentially that spec is an attempt to provide code for a standard set of controls.
alex: you want a way of saying there's a built in behaviour and I want to participate in that behaviour
andrew: isn't that what role is for
chaals: no, screen reader will announce the role but the role does not carry any interaction.  Andrew is channeling the ignorance of the masses.
... particularly interesting with components made up of multiple elements eg slider
travis: contenteditable good example of an attribute that turns on lots of complex behaviour
Chaals: ARIA doesn't even attempt to deal with contenteditable
timbl: why is contenteditable a bad idea?
Chaals: one attribute kicks off massive amount of behaviour, not standardised.
[ratholing into the problems of contenteditable]
dka: actions?
alex: we should angle for completeness in ARIA, ability to represent things that you can do in HTML
dka: something you could write, alex?
chaals: look at what accessibility APIs do, why they exist, so you can engage with the topic.  bring your understanding of extensibility into the conversation.
... ARIA is developed by screen reader people in a vaccum
... unifying the way that people do these things would be useful.
[ ARIA issues list: https://github.com/w3c/aria/issues ]
[ Further reading (via Léonie ) https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/03/web-accessibility-with-accessibility-api/ ]
dka: nothing assigned to ARIA 2 in the issue list? 
Leonie: chair of the group if hyper focused on 1.1
dka: Should we recast this discussion as feedback on 1.1
Leonie/Chaals: No
Chaals: you need to get to a level of understanding.
... there are things that make sense as feedback on 1.1 but that's not what the TAG should be doing
alex: tips for becoming fluent in ARIA?
dka: what can we attach our work to?
chaals: Go an look at [aria-keyboardShortcuts](https://rawgit.com/w3c/aria/master/aria/aria.html#aria-kbdshortcuts).  But TAG should not be noodling on tiny things
alex: Actually that's exactly what we do a lot of
chaals: you'll learn a lot from KS
leonie: if you want specifics, consider the password role.  Could be telling screen reader users that their password is hidden but it might still be visible if it relies on JavaScript to be obfuscated.  Also could be plainly announced by the screen reader
timbl: sometimes I might need the password read back to me, and sometimes I definitely don't want that
leonie: agree that the best role for TAG is in 2.0
dka: ok how do we structure this issue in TAG world
alex: reach out to chairs of ARIA?
dka: who is the WG chair?
chaals: Rich Schwerdtfeger, IBM
alex: we're not experts but we're used to being out of our depth and asking dumb questions
dka: can we do an in depth session in Stockholm?  is that too late?
Chaals: no, not much happening on this in next 6 months
... it's nor clear that the chair will be ready to have a discussion in Stockholm
hadley: when do the chairs want 2.0 finished?
chaals: no, they want to ship 1.1 first
leonie: again don't touch 1.1
dka: I'll reach out to the chair to organise something

<br role='coffee' aria-duration='300'/>
[not that data-* attributes are for private use, and attempting to understand the meaning behind the value is likely to lead to disappointment]

TOPIC: Improving User Interface interactions with very "special" interloper Chaals
[lost the early context here]
Chaals: screen reader users are very heavy keyboard users
... this model assumes you know the environment, can guarantee that the user isn't worried about how their keys work
... in acute accessibility cases you really have no idea.
... local keyboards, hiragana, cyrillic etc
... on french keyboards numbers require shift, so you can't specify modifiers like SHIFT+5
... TAG should consider whether this is a problem
... What does a solution look like?
... We tried to create intent events but that failed.  Required extra work.
... Any kind of architecture that asks devs to do that is unlikely to be adopted
... Don't want web developers to change my local conventions, eg scroll direction
... accesskey does work, if you read what HTML4 says, not what HTML5 does
... implementations vary from not very good to woeful
... nice thing about accesskey is that a JS approach is very hard to co-ordinate
... there's no negotiation path, two things can't negotiate over a key
... accesskey does enable that
... there's no way of discovering what the shortcuts are
hadley: so no-one is currently working on this?
chaals: I'm doing some cleaning up around the edges, but no-one else is doing anything
... there's no serious work going into it
... there would be a fairly big shift in how we do things
hadley: it's been like this for a long time?
chaals: Since CSS separated :hover and :focus, and JS handlers for onmouseover have been available... so
... it's a 21 year old problem
hadley: how are people dealing with it
chaals: they write poor jS.  In twitter I compose in a separate window because I don't understand what key combos have been bound as actions that I might not want to take
... accesskey by and large does not have this problem
... sometimes you can't use it though, because screen readers use all the letters already
... we rely on authors to do discoverability
hadley: why isn't the world complaining about it?
chaals: it works as an 80/20 solution
timbl: what would a better arch be?
chaals: declare behaviour that I want to trigger, and allow the UA to assign a trigger key to it
hadley: would keys be inconsistent between systems if they are reassignable dynamically?
chaals: do you follow the app convention or the platform convention?
hadley: there should be an API so the user can decide how to map actions to triggers?
chaals: devs should be able to set a default, requested trigger.  UA can override.
... needs to work with tools like sip-suck interfaces
timbl: some new gadget wants to use lots of keyboard, might shift all existing shortcuts to a different namespace, eg add a modifier
chaals: web applications could try to claim OS-reserved key combinations
andrew: There's a priority there, right. You couldn't expect a web site to override the OS defaults, would you?
chaals: IE4 could do that
travis: one of the modern problems is that on Windows, alt is reserved for OS level accessibility shortcuts. You get keydown but not keyup or any subsequent key presses because it removes focus
... in FF you can use alt+shift+accesskey, but press and release alt will rob focus
chaals: falling back to pressing tab hundreds of times is a horrendous UX.  Alternatives are not good either
dbaron: how much of this can be improved by UAs, vs. improve spec for existing mechanism, vs. a new mechanism that sites would have to switch to?
chaals: I don't know. If you have to have a flag day migration (?) that's not going to work
... where is the path that solves the problem and how do we get there from here?
hadley: the scenario you were describing, with a sensible way for the user to handle separate mappings of actions to keys from the OS, user agent, site... what would it break?
chaals: it wouldn't break anything (afaict)
andrew: so who should be doing it then?
chaals: accesskey is restrictive, can't use single keys.  Gameplay mode for access keys?
... browsers can implement improvements independently of each other, and the improvements don't break anything
... some of the improvements can be done as extensions
... to get devs to shift their behaviour, it needs to be as good as the 80% that we have today that actually works
... when a native impl is good enough, motivation for developers is strong
... so we need the browsers on board
hadley: sounds like the charter process for a working group
alex: TAG is unsuited to doing anything except identifying holes in the platform
dka: is this something where we have consensus in the TAG that we should be doing something about this?
chaals: are you saying this is a problem, this is not a problem, or we don't know
hadley: what difference does it make?
chaals: looking for backup to support my advocating for change
hadley: personally I think it seems like exploring this and looking for evidence of what users need is work that's worth doing
dbaron: not entirely sure it's an architectural thing
alex: this seems to need a community around it that already understands the problem.
... the path from typing to effect is complex
... the ability to understand what's going on is hard, and it's a concern for DOM, HTML, etc.  We could put this on their plate
chaals: not asking the TAG to solve it, just say whether it should be solved
alex: depends how large the solution is, how many specs it touches
... may be more furitful to describe the new behaviour rather than how we get there
dka: actions?
alex: we could revisit keyboard events?
... you could imagine us doing a review of an element that has one of these behaviours
... answer in the form of a spec review
dka: we'll take this away and come back to you
dbaron: I don't want to sound like this isn't a problem worth solving.  need to prioritise against lots of other problems worth solving
hadley: right now this is a pretty theoretical discussion
alex: it would be useful to have event dispatch for keyboard events outlined somewhere
chaals: another piece that is critical is what users do
... how a browser works for any single app is not the issue, it's how users work with multiple apps
dka: we need to move on from this issue.  We'll have a discussion.


TOPIC: Streams (Travis) - issue 92 - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/92
travis: we're looking for a document ath defines the high level types of streams (see issue)
... I spent time looking at currnet streams std (WHATWG)
... has come quite a long way since I last looked at it.  Does a good job, describing streams, setting up defs, terminology etc.
... allows you to consume data from buffers etc.
... you want to be able to start consuming content off the wire before the end of the data stream
... this feature is about opening up the opportunity and describing lower level primatives
... allow others to describe their content as a stream
... what spec does not cover is conversions in the browser between different things.  Not specified.
... I can cover some of the high level terminoogy and concepts, but we won't be able to close the issue
dka: you think there's still a gap wrt to how streams are described
travis: we wanted to take a more broad view of steams than this spec describes
Dan: do we need a TAG document on "streams on the web"?
Alex: yes I think we need a document of the different kinds of streams, interactions and open issues.
David: … a multi-spec spec review.
Alex: a coordination problem. You can take an audio stream - a media source stream - pass that into webaudio which interacts with a 
... clock based processing mode. Those all have different expectations.
Travis: one thing I'm noticing from the stream standard is that they want to accomodate all kinds of streams. They
… do a good job from a taxonony standpoint. There's still value to doing the research and writing it down in a TAG document.
… maybe through that process we find out things aren't so bad.
Dan: I suggest we do that - start a new document.
Alex: I think we should start with a review of byte streams: webaudio, webrtc, 
Travis: the way that this [spec] is written - it's in the style of ecmascript tc39 - it may be the intention for this to be integrated into ecmascript.
… as a language primitive this seems useful.
Alex: the intent is to augment what is in javascript with a streaming data type.
Travis: In the spec they describe 2 kinds of streams - readable stream and writable stream. Both types have built-in buffers.
… They're connected to intrinsic source or intrinsic sync. [intrinsic as in something you don't have access too - e.g. network or filesystem]
…at the most simple level you can pipe areadable stream into a writable stream. You can chain these together
…into a complex way. Signals propogate and convey a concept of back-pressure. State of the consumer so they can 
…adjust accordingly. E.g. a readable stream with a buffer of 3 - units of 1 ("chunks") - the source will start filling up
…this buffer. The signals will tell the source the total number filled in the bufffer. When you get to 0 there is some back
…pressure exerted. Sliding window built into the streams.
Tim: The goal is to fill the buffers. [referencing buffer bloat problem] - when buffers fill up everything gets slower....
…maybe the user moves on… that video or that sound will fall of the screen anyway...
Travis: the buffers are conceptual - not exposed – an implementation can optimize. Chunked delivery is reliable - same order deliver.
…an interesting concept called a tee - a splitting of a readable stream. Sigals get coalesced to create back-pressure.
DKA: who why what?
Travis: the blob proposal... that came out of ... describe the data in an immutable object. Then readers of blobs.… a concept that's necessary
… for dealing with large data.
Alex: we've made progress by making these opaque things that can "see behind the curtain" … if you don't touch the bytes there is
…no need to buffer them. 
Travis: performance is the main driver. E.g. dealing with slower sources. Lots of async APIs can benefit.
Alex: we've got demos of apps that use service workers - showing better than network performance.
Travis: Another importan use case - transforming data. E.g. EME - you want to re-encode data as you receive it.
… the concept of EME as is is it's own streaming thing. It gets chunks of stuff… you can do ad insertion… There's a stream
… that was custom-invented for that scenario.
[discussion on whether it's worth while to get some of the existing streaming APIs to work with streams ...]
Alex: re-evaluate their types as subclasses [of streams]?
Travis: I will create a document.

[ … brief digression into web payments … - http://manu.sporny.org/2016/browser-api-incubation-antipattern/ … ]

[LUNCH]

Peter: did we wrap up on Streams?
Travis: think so

TOPIC: Meeting planning
Travis: Stockholm?
Alex: Google hosting is confirmed, still owe details.
[ discussion of having the Saturday meeting on a boat ]
Peter: 28-30 July.
Alex: Some questions about the Saturday
Mark: HTTP workshop confirmed for Monday-Wednesday; submissions due in 2 weeks.  Space constrained.
Mark: And IETF the week before in Berlin.

Peter: Then TPAC, September 19-23, and we pencilled in 2 alternatives 27-29 for face-to-face, and also October 17-20 for SF.
Mark: Last time, pushback against week after TPAC.
Andrew: or Asia?  We could host in Japan.
Mark: IETF in Seoul, South Korea, November 13-18
Yves: Would be good to do [...] in Japan
Andrew: Nikkei also different environment
Peter: Would October 17-20, four days with a bigger event, work for everyone?
Mark: not the best week for me, but definitely not anything earlier and after TPAC
Yves: following week bad for me
Peter: what about November 7, week before IETF?
Hadley: prefer closer to Thanksgiving
?: week after would overlap thanksgiving
Mark discusses overlapping with IETF, maybe Thu-Sat of IETF week
?: maybe back to October
Mark: I had a possible conflict week of October 17
TimBL: conflict October 20th
Mark: November 8-9-10
Dan: And event on the 7th?
Mark: or 8-9-10-11?
RESOLVED: November 8-11, Tokyo, hosted by Nikkei (and not using September dates or October dates), Japan, 〒100-8066 Tokyo, Chiyoda, Otemachi, 1−3−7, 日経ビル

Mark: revisit January question?  Should we keep those dates.
Dan: I think we should keep those dates.  Week of January 16.
Dan: Could move a little later in time to space meetings out a bit.
Dan: Maybe week of January 30
Peter: When does TAG election close?
?: results seem to be announced in January
David: recent results announced 9, 10, 11 of January
Dan: first week of February in Boston or Iceland?
Alex: or San Francisco?
Mark: a week earlier or later would be good, I think
Dan: would week of 6 February 2017 be good, in SF?
Mark: could you do 8-10?
Mark: what about Jan 31 - Feb 2?
Dan: If we're in SF we should do a summit
Dan: I think we should do a smaller event in Japan, maybe half day or evening
Dan: But in SF I think we should do a one-day thing.
Peter: Cut Japan dates down to 3?
Dan: Keep 4 days for now until we figure it out.
Dan: I was thinking we might want to do a slightly longer afternoon/evening thing 
David: Also maybe check for big conference conflicts in SF.
Peter: so block out the third as well?
RESOLVED: Jan 31 - Feb 2 2017 is pencilled in for TAG meeting in San Francisco, with event probably on February 3

Peter: block out one more meeting after that?
Alex: probably plenty, also election coming

TOPIC: Issues
A few issues in the meetings repo: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues/12 - dependency graph
Travis: sounds like nice to have, but not critical.  Seems like we can close it.

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues/9 - explore possible Web Components Best Practices guide
Alex: Is there something we want to do that's different from Jan's [gold standard](https://github.com/webcomponents/gold-standard/wiki)?
Alex: We've used this; works well.
Peter: adds link in issue and closes

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/14
Dan: I think the IP address issue has been fixed
Dan: https://github.com/w3c/webrtc-pc/issues/179 dom felt this was closed; I'm happy with it, and think we should close our issues
Dan: Was a pull request that added reference to document about IP address handling recemmendations.  This closed it as far as they are concerned.
Dan: We put something into our issue referencing issue 179 in their repo.  (Dan writes comment in issue...)
Hadley: ... links to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-shieh-rtcweb-ip-handling/
Mark: this is an individual draft that was adopted by the working group; draft #1 was published in March and looks pretty active
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-rtcweb-ip-handling/
Mark: This has a nice slot on the agenda next week for day 1.
Mark: I can go to that session and listen in.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/18 Performance Observer Review
Dan: Alex, this is yours
Alex: I don't believe they're significantly further along than last I looked... although there's an implementation in Mozilla?  I haven't done anything.
Alex: Let me provide a little feedback in this issue; I'll do it now.  Give me 3 minutes.
[ Alex writes, in parallel with following discussion ]
[ ... much later than stuff below ...]
Alex: Invite them to a call?
Alex: Mostly a clean bill of health.
Alex: Ask what they'd like for us to do next?
Peter: Can you do that?  Milestone 2 weeks.
Alex: sure

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/38 Browser Fingerprinting Document
Dan: I think this is closeable.
Dan: I'm assigned to this.  I think we can close for now.  Can reopen if more feedback is requested.
Peter: They published their note and didn't appear to address our feedback.
Dan: We fed that back to them, and they did incorporate more feedback, I think.
Mark: No, we pointed that out, and said they're not done with the document yet, and continuing to revise.
Dan: I wish we'd noted that in the issue...
Mark: I think it was on a call.
Peter: Issue says February 3 call.
Dan: I added some comments/links to the issue.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/42 CSP
Mark: I own a review of what they're doing.  Been tracking it, want to have another look.  Generally they're doing good stuff.
Peter: want to set a milestone?
Mark: In about a month?
Peter: April 27, can slip if you want.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/49 Credential Management API
Ttravis: I thought we did a review of this in a teleconference since my last comment.
Peter: I thought we talked about in Melbourne
*Yves leaves*
Travis: He asked us to compare what FIDO has with what's incredential management, shared types
Travis: I thought Google requested review of it because they were going to ship it
Alex: At the FIDO meeting they'd delayed processing any of the feedback until the W3C switch, and then they'll mass-import the issues and go over it
Travis: Ping FIDO again?
Alex: Prefer setting future milestone over closing.
Travis: 2 months?
Peter: end of May

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/53 contributing.md document needed for TAG reviews
Peter: Dan?
Dan: We have a readme.  I think we can close it.
David: I don't think it answers those questions, though.
Dan: I'm editing it to include those issues, suggest we close the issue.
Peter: works for me

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61
Travis: Done, waiting for [...] requesters.  This was group asking for privacy mode information, so we might have something soon we can relay to them, guidelines for what they could consider including in the spec.
Mark: Would be great to get their feedback.
Travis: I moved the milestone to next week so I can take care of that quickly and report back.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64 cross-spec device identification
Travis: This bleeds from WebRTC identifying camera devices etc., spans across bluetooth, NFC, USB.  Scenarios where we want to identify device information.
Dan: Discussed in Melbourne.  Adding ??? principles to the existing design principles doc.
Travis: I don't think that happened.
Travis: I think I want to move out a few weeks, maybe April 27 telecon.  I will probably do a pull request on Dominic's API design doc and we can loop in folks on the issue and see if we can come to a good...
Alex: Do we have advice?
Travis: I Think we had discussion in Melbourne, plus some thoughts from before Melbourne.   I want to write it down as a pull request and go from there.
Alex: Let's take some time now.
[ network glitch ]
[ working on issue ]
Travis: 

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70
David: oops, I should look over responses and get back to you
Peter: 2 weeks?
David: sure

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/89 geofencing
Hadley: We last left that we were concerned with use cases -- looking back to minutes from November.
Peter: Think we discussed in Melbourne.
Alex: Why u no explainer?
Hadley: very small group taking on really big task
Alex: THat's pretty common, but...
Hadley: There's a link to November telecon minutes without a discussion...
Alex: There's mentions of the Permissions API, but there doesn't seem to be a Geofence permission reflected in the API yet.
Hadley: Issue #1 says should mention.
Hadley: I remember now -- in Melbourne, we checked in with them, and they said they hadn't done any work on it.
Alex: So we'll come back to it when they ping us?
Peter: Milestone to next face-to-face?

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/63
Alex: Explainer, yay.
Alex: There's a reference to a Mozilla a11y doc... Alex Surkov... moved to WICG, with Marcos.
Alex: I'm trying to understand the overlap between this Accessibility API proposal and the script accessibility thing.
Alex: This is fascinating.
Alex: This looks very much like an extensibility mechanism for ARIA.
Alex: It has the behavior of being a fallback for a request for ARIA data on an element.  If there isn't ARIA data on an element it sends this event which you can handle programatically to respond, which is really cool.
Alex: User intention events are sort of a recycled concept here from other proposals like Indie UI.  But this doesn't seem to come with a list of predefined intention events the same way that Indie UI did.  Also, the ARIA async thing is fundamentally new.  It says there's going to be content here, but it isn't here now, and I'll let you know when it is.
Alex: There's a question about extent to which virtualizing only a portion of the view -- creating elements, managing and loading data, virtualize loading behaviors through event delegation -- seems like it's crying out for something less like ARIA async and more like content async, and then have ARIA participate in that.
Alex: But otherwise this is super cool.
Dan: Can that be captured in the issue?
Dan: Can we develop that into a consensus view that we could close the issue on?
Alex: Let me type up my response and then...
Alex: I'll say roughly that it feels like 3 or 4 things at once, might be good to separate.  All feel productive.  SPecifically interesting is last chance ARIA behavior with ability to handle event.  I think open questions about impact on performance of potentially bubbling those events.  Do they bubble?  If they don't bubble, easier to think about.  Even capture phase alone, deep down, may cause performance concern, b/c you may have to traverse all the way down DOM every time event handler registered.  But the ability to have programmatic ability to respond for ARIA roles and states without having to set them in the DOM a priori is pretty great.
Dan: Seems a bit odd that we didn't touch on this this morning.  Neither Chaals or Leonie mentioned this.
Alex: Lack of socialization?  Happy to cc: them into the bug.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/66
Peter: I bumped the date on that one

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/71 CSS font display
Alex: spec hasn't changed.  Close it, and ask Tab to ask if he wants more feedback.
Peter: Remember discussed a long time ago in CSS; don't remember where it left off.


https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/72
Peter: Is this a duplicate?  We talked about this yesterday or the day before...
David: That was when we went through unassigned issues.

David: Also, I feel like I should take some issues; I didn't do that when we went through unassigned issues...
(dbaron takes 72 and 1?? on WebUSB)

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/73 secure stop
Alex: Travis and I talked about this over dinner.
Alex: People seem to have read all possible positions into the feedback we provided last.
Alex: We agreed I'd take a stab at "You misunderstood us, this is weird and a bigger fishing expedition than you thought, so we think it'll take years to specify this sanely.  So please don't include this in your spec."  Does this sound reasonable to others?
Alex: OK, I'll start typing this into github...  [ probably worded better than scribe captured on previous line! ]

Dan: Also is the "in progress" label in this repo meaningful?  Isn't everything?  Should I just delete the label?
David: beyond assigned and unassigned?
Andrew: Label is creating work; seems work is not worth doing.
[ discussion about "duplicate" and "valid" labels as not useful either ]
[ Dan labels his meta-issue as "quantum-issue" ]

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/74 unblocking HTTPS transitions
Mark: we talked about this in Melbourne
Mark: Brad doesn't have time to work on this more, and we don't have any implementor interest expressed yet.  There was a lot of concern expressed about the complexity of this approach, and as Mike ...
[discussion about status]
Mark: As Mike says, HSTS priming is something with significantly more implementor interest and easier to think about.  He's coediting this with Richard.  I can talk to Richard next week at IETF about where they're at with this, and ping Mike as well.
Peter: Milestone?
Mark: 2 weeks?

Mark: Cancel next week's call?
[ multiple people can't make the call ]
agree to cancel next week's call

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76 with credentials flag
Mark: we discussed this at this meeting.  Where did we leave that?
Dan: Tim was going to respond to... reviewing Jonas's comment .
Tim: I had a response to his original message.  Should I not send it before reading the whole thread?
Tim: I'm looking at the message in Drafts... and just deleted it by accident since it's not editable by default.

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/77 security questionnaire
Mark: Dan?
Dan: Give me a sec, responding to issue 112.
Mark: I think we can sit on this until Stockholm; we can see how people use it before revisiting.
David: Should bikeshed warning link to it?
Peter: I have a note to submit PR for that, will do in next few days.

Tim: If there were a "Legal Issues" section, we could have the questionnare for that too.
Mark: We don't want to talk about the law, but could talk about policy implications of specifications.
Hadley: We talked about at lunch:  legal to-do list:  we've gone this far, but we're not covering these things.
Tim: Does this spec have behavior that could harm society.
Hadley: e.g., spam
Tim: ... fraud
?: "Societal Implications"?

Mark: We did get some questions on the security questionnare repo

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/84
Alex: I think Josh's response is reasonable.  I'd like Domenic's view on iteration.  I will ask him about it.
Peter: Milestone?
Alex: next call

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76 again
Tim: shows draft reply to Jonas reflecting discussion
Peter: I think that reflects what we discussed
David: I think I disagree with (a), but I think it reflects Tim's point of view

ADJOURNED

TOPIC: Update our homepage














