11-November-2015 Teleconf

Agenda:
		* Reviewing and hopefully agreeing our TPAC resolution on security reviews
		* Security Questionnaire Status: https://github.com/w3ctag/security-questionnaire/issues
		* Geofencing - needs assigned - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/89
		* Bluetooth API - needs assigned - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/90
		* General review of our issues register - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues

TPAC Resolution Discussion Fodder:
    
Title: Assuring a Strong and Secure Web Platform
	The Web has been built through iteration and collaboration, and enjoys strong security because so many people are able to continually test and review its designs and implementations. As the Web gains interfaces to new device capabilities like NFC & bluetooth, we rely even more on broad participation, testing, and audit to keep users safe and the web's security model (including the Same Origin Policy) intact. Therefore, W3C policy should assure that such broad testing and audit continues to be possible, as it is necessary to keep both design and implementation quality high.
	[consensus on the above statement was achieved at this meeting] - RESOLVED (pending response from Tim)

Tim's response -  "I feel it sounds like a TAG selection of SOP above other models at a time when a modification or extension or alternative may be called for, and may be called for in order to compete with native mobile."

Suggested alternative:
	UPDATE (2-Nov): TIm requested we remove “(including same Origin Policy)” parenthetical. I further would suggest removing "like NFC and Bluetooth" as it muddies the waters. Full statement would read:
	The Web has been built through iteration and collaboration, and enjoys strong security because so many people are able to continually test and review its designs and implementations. As the Web gains interfaces to new device capabilities, we rely even more on broad participation, testing, and audit to keep users safe and the web's security model intact. Therefore, W3C policy should assure that such broad testing and audit continues to be possible, as it is necessary to keep both design and implementation quality high.
	

Alex: if an alnertnative model does show up we can have that conversation - I'm a proponent of that - but that requires a new arch baseline.
Hadley: you want us to mention to SOP to put arch legitimacy into the statement. I hear Tim saying he wants to future-proof this statement. Can we include "or alternatives"... 
Dan: is there a middle way™
Alex: I'm OK with dropping the parenthetical – let's get it done.
Hadley: OK.
Dan: OK.
Alex: We can have that conversation (about SOP) another time.
Dan: I will take an action to "ship it." (make a blog post, email the AB)
Hadley: when you do that one of us should go back to Corey. It should go to the AB as agreed in Japan. 
Dan: Can you email cory, Hadley?
Hadley: we left it with Cory saying we create a task force... will say we discussed and have contributed this to the AB and now leaving it with them to take the next steps...
MNOT: beyond the arch statement we're talking about not alot of TAG specific input to be made. We could say TAG participate as individuals... 
[ok yes, good]

[issues register go-through]

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/89
hadley: are they ready for input from anyone?
dan: what is the implementor story on this? more research needed?
alex: editor is an implementor.  We shouldnt gate on implementation readiness.
hadley: seems they had picked 3 use cases - hadn't thought of the privacy problems, problems with the model... Felt like they hadn't bottomed out the usefulness...
alex: I think it's a litlte unfair... we tend not to stop adding capabilities because they could be used [in a bad way] but rather think about the control to end user if they are used. Keeping using in control and aware of what's happening. That seems like reasonable feedback about the privacy concern. Does it have an API impact - is there something they could do in the API design? You could indicate a way in the API to add flexibility... If I look at the API they've got now they seem to be in good shape. Registration of geogencing as an async call. User agent can therefore inject whatever they need to...
Hadley: that sounds good from an arch. perspective. to clarify it felt it was evidence of it being early - they sounded like they hadn't thought through the implications yet.  Hence my question on whether it was too early to give feedback?
[taken up for f2f - assigned to hadley]

[adjourned]


