TAG Teleconference
16 December 2015

Agenda:
		* agenda bashing for f2f
		* audio output devices API – Travis
		* Fido & Credentials
Triage:
		* Web Push Payloads
		* Web background sync
Bonus round: 
		* Promise Issue from Domenic (Alex)
		* Our feedback requested on CSP latest draft (Alex)

Present: Dan, Hadley, Yves, dbaron, Peter, Travis, Alex, TimBL, mnot
Scribe: Hadley the great
--

dka: We have 2 issues to address:
    
		* Web Push Payloads
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/98

		* Web background sync
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/95

dka: Would anyone like to become the assignee for either of these?
Should we check with Alex when he arrives?
...@dbaron? Are you interested in Web Push payloads?
dbaron: It's new to me... 
dka: Could you do a quick once-over on this?
dbaron: sure
[and there was much rejoicing]
dka: And I'll assign it to the Melbourne F2F

dka: Re Web background sync... Alex might be better?

dka: [re-introduces the agenda]
I presented "A tale of two credential managements on the Web" today at the UK GDS.
Travis: The Credentials API and the FIDO API?
dka: Yes
Travis:  I don't know. Mike West said "these seemed to be aligned in the past and have now diverged."  So... we may have some gaps to addresss.
dka: @alex, any thoughts? Both of these seem to be promoted by Google
Alex: I know there is a platonic goal of getting them to play together. Credentials was sitting on the sidelines for a while, and Mike has picked it back up. And we were waiting for FIDO to come into the W3C, which has happened?
Travis: Yes
Alex:  I'm not sure yet if there will be problems. I think everyone wants them to play nicely together. I don't know the details yet.
dka: We have 2 issues on this in our register.  Travis, you're on tap to do something on this?  Issue 97
Travis: Yes, go ahead and assign me.
dka: We have another issue... Issue 49.  This is also assigned to you.
dka: we need to find out of xxxx.
alex: these aren't in conflict. Credentials management may be one of the ways that you get a credential from a FIDO device.
dka:  I guess we need to discuss at the F2F.
...It's going to be required reading for both the FIDO submission and Credentials Management.  h/t to the Noah Mendelson era of the TAG.
Travis: My goal was to distill it down to the TAG at the F2F.  But if everyone does their homework, that's even better.

dka:  Re Issue 91, Audio Output Device API... Travis?
Travis: I put my notes in the issue (https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/91#issuecomment-164919172). I also checked with our folks here at Microsoft.
...Basically the spec looks good to me.  I had a few nits on the naming.
... The spec is intended to help a web developer change where audio output is directed. Without this, web devs have no say as to where the outupt of audio will be sent.  the browser and OS get to choose.
...This spec gives the web dev some degree of say.  Esp if the site is geared toward video and audio conferencing, then headset/speakerphone/mic, vs the general speakers on the device.
...So they tie in to WebRTC that allow you to enumerate devices on the system.
...That provides identifiers for the devices.
...This spec creates a way of assigning an output ID to the audio and video tags, and to configure one of the web audio graphs to have a particular ID.
...It's asyhronous, so the user and user agent can offer permissions UX.
...Eg., "Hey user, this web page is trying to send audio to your main speaker. I see you're in the library — are you sure you want to allow that?"
...So you can programmatically enumerate the devices and choose one in javascript, or you can choose from presets.  
..."Hey, device if you have a headset plugged in, I prefer to use that."
...So the spec is short. Covers privacy well.  Uses syncID, which I can live with.
...I ran it by eingeers in Microsoft who were fine. Google are planning to ship it.
...Carl responded to my comments, filed a bug on one of them, and is happy with the naming of the identifiers.
dka: I see there's no mention of Permissions API...? https://w3c.github.io/permissions/
travis: oops, meant to mention that
...
alex: transitional period where permissions API isn't implemented everywhere.  Not a bad idea to have its own requesting method, but should be able to request/reflect with permissions API.
alex: If you'd had the permissions API up front, you'd never have had these one-off ways, but now debate is about the consistent thing to do now that we have the permissions API.
hadley: [question]
alex: There are a lot of legacy APIs… It’s not a bad idea for an API to have a requestAccessPermissions api.  But at the same time, the Permissions API should reflect the current state.  And in the method requesting, you’ll want to reflect it there too.
dka: Can we record consensus on this? Or do we need another round of back and forth with them.
Travis: Harald has been pretty responsive. Unless there's much more notable feedback, I move we close the issue.
dka: Okay. Will close it. Will reopen if necessary.

dka: other things in the agenda...?
travis: Better to discuss at the F2F. 
dka: will give myself an action to put together a Required Reading page on GitHub for the F2F.  

Alex: Is there an explainer doc re the Audio Output API?  How to use it in context? Example code?
Travis: Yeah, there wasn't much; but there was just hte one thing you do with it.
Alex: I'd like to see it in context.  It seems workable, but it touches Media Elements, a list of existing pre-registered syncs... 
...I'll add a comment, asking for it.
Travis: Ok

dka: Promises API, raised by Domenic? Alex, it's yours.
...And then, feedback on the CSP latest draft.  Covered last week? Assigned to Mark. 
Mark: Not ready yet.
dka: I'll assign this to the Melbourne F2F.  (It was assigned to TPAC, but before Mike added the comment on 4 Dec)

Travis: What do we have to do on Issue-88?  This is the feedback on DOM error/DOM exception ? https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/88
...I have some opinions on this one, but it might be good to discuss.
dka: Why don't you start us off?
Travis: I'll assign it to myself.
dka: Do others have opinions on it?

dka: I also wanted to discuss Issue 96, Promise rejection tracking events. Raised by Domenic.  https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/96

...So far we haven't done anything. Alex, I assigned it to you when you weren't with us... sorry.
...It's actually a WHAT-WG spec in question.
Travis: Well, it's in HTML.  It's a way of handling in a platform way when a promise should be rejected.
...This isn't the same as adding the ability for Web devs to cancel promises that aren't resolved?
Alex: You create an unhandled rejection event, which is dispatched whenever you run through this list of about-to-be-notified promises.
...It's a big deal because lots of sites are finding they're using their error logging, as promises are taken up. 
...It's making it hard to debug.  Many of our larger properties have complained about this.
Travis: why not just use On Error?
Alex: I suspect it's because with an error, you have to give much more granular info on what went wrong.
TimBL: This sounds like... is the problem that when you commence with promises, they haven't done a full conversion?  OR is it that...?
Alex: In general, there used to be code that was fully synchronous, so you could catch them on-error.  But promises swallow exceptions.
TimBL: So you could use the promises for handling the error, like you could use a separate handler for handling success? If you haven't, is it possible for the system to realise that nobody has signed up for the error, and to deliver the exception?
...I'd like to add the conservation of exceptions. 
...To handle it in the console, or to track it. So I could understand ... from conservation of exceptions seems like a good rule.
Alex: There's something here... As Domenic says, there's a pun that happens with synchronous code that isn't happening here. But it should.
TimBL:  It's hard.  If the synchronous code wouldve thrown an exception, then an exception should be found somewhere.
...It would be nice... It seems to me a common pattern is to have a handler for success, and a handler that raises exceptions.
...Should the promises system affect that, if I'm signed up for the error?
Alex:  Is this about when the error handler is installed?
TimBL: Supposing I have a success handler, but I don't have an error handler. The default should be that... if an exception is called within something else, within the code of the promise-presenting function... then ...
...Are you saying that exception would get lost?  Disappear? 
...That sounds to me like a bad idea.  They should percolate outwards.  You either catch an exception or your whole system crashes.
Travis: In Promise design, you absolutely can has this cascade of asynchronous operations. If one of them fails along the way, the fact that the promise was rejected... it will work, as long as you have a catch handler or if... [packet loss]
...I think the issue at play is if you as the web handler choose not to provide an error handler, there is no fall-back at the global level.
TimBL: I think I need a whiteboard.
... Are you saying you need a catch handler inside the implementation of the promise? If you don't have that, it'll get lost?
Travis: yes
Alex: The idea: if you get to the end of a promise chain, and it's rejectd all the way and no one handles it, then at the end of it it would get to those "last chance saloon" handler.
TimBL:  but you have to sign up for that event? If you haven't, then there is no final handler exception?
Alex: Yes. But that would happen in On Error too.  If no one is signed up, it would go into the void.
dka: So Domenic has asked if this is in our wheelhouse.  What do we think?
...Who is working on this?
alex:  Someone has pushed through this remedy for the unhandled proimse error. This seems like a real end-user error, in terms of login.
... I did ask Domenic on why it's not sent to on error.  He said we'd have to add a new attribute to the on error event.
Travis:  I agree with that.
Alex: I'm roughly swayed by that argument. This seems justified.
dka: Can you share that discussion? Or attach it to the issue?
Alex: I'll write it up and check with Domenic.
dbaron: I was wondering... does this give sites a good enough diagnostic for what happened?  It's not clear to me it is, or if there is a better answer.
...It looks like this event has a property that contains the event where the promise was unhandled. But presumably that's the last promise in the chain?
Alex: Yes
dbaron: I guess that makes sense. You get an error, adn you get the promise object at the end of that chain. you don't know where; but you do get it.
Alex:  Your error will come from wherever it was originally bubbled in the promise chain.
... Very much like exceptions, where if you don't have a catch log, you'll simply see the errror arriving from its original location.
dbaron: so the error could be an exception thrown from somewhere int he chain or it could be a rejection reason?
Alex: You'll get a rejection value, which can be an exception. 
dbaron: Okay. If it's not an exception... then you also have this promise property to help understand what it was?
Alex: yes
dka: Could we discuss this again on the next call before the F2F?
alex: Okay. If there isn't an objection to this, seems reasonable. Travis?
Travis: yes, seems reasonable. I see now why I wouldn't want to overload on error.  Given the problem space, this sounds like a good solution.  I'm not objecting to it.  I may be in favour of it.
...I found in working with promises, if you get it wrong, your app does nothing. The chain failed, no error was given, and its all asychronous... so it would be nice to have more info. 
dka: So.. yes/no to invite Domenic to next call?
alex: I'll leave a few comments and I'm happy to close after that.
Travis: I agree with Alex.
dbaron: me too.
timBL: fine.

hadley: I think we need to make some kind of a standard for a whiteboard so Tim can draw during TAG calls.
dka: I think we can use WebRTC!

dka: Any other business?  Mark, re restaurants in Melbourne?
mnot: if folks want to do a day trip to wineries, beaches....?  And if people want to go to a nice restaurant, we should book that.
...I'll send out a doodle to set dates.

