Present: dbaron, plinss, timbl, hadley, travis, jyasskin (invited by slightlyoff), Yves

Travis: I was asked to take a look at WebNFC spec.  I did, yesterday.  First, a little context:  there was an NFC working group that produced a WD document.  Chartered in 2012.  That WD progressed for a while but was ultimately published as a NOTE.  I have some links I can add.  The NOTE was published in June of this year.  Work moved into a community group.  That community group maintains most current iteration of WebNFC document.  The goal of the community group (NFC communicy group) [reading text] is to create a near-field communication api that is browser-friendly, adheres to Web security model (not expose full low-level NFC functionality), exposing subset that is safe for Web pages and protects user privacy and doesn't annoy users with unnecessary / complex permission requests.  
https://w3c.github.io/web-nfc/
Travis: First impression: looks like it integrates well.  Uses promises, good api patterns , plugs in to permissions API.  NFC permission .  Goes into detail about lower-level nfc primitives and data structures, so they can describe precisely how the Web api maps to lowel-level NFC protocols.  Stacks that NFC layers on top of; ISO 18092(??) and related standards.  After that goes into scenarios are that they require the Web page to be both open and active for any use of the NFC api to be permitted.  No such thing as a service-worker-like wakeup with an NFC message.  Sender and cient both have to be in active, participatory state.  Rule a bunch of scenarios out of scope (handover -- using NFC to exchange data about connecting to alternative protocol like wifi or bluetooth) -- but we do have a Web bluetooth spec -- I wonder if there's an opportunity.
jyasskin:  I'm editor of Web Bluetooth too.  We intend to get that working in ?? version.
Travis: payments also out of scope.  IN light of recent movement on Web payments, seems like might be another opportunity there.
Travis: some discussion of having a secure module that would need to be involved in payments setup
Travis: security considerations section in this document is fantastic; could be a model for other specs; aware of WebAppSec secure context work.  Layer the Web origin model into their design, so the messages sent from a Web context carry an origin with them.  If you're able to exchange NFC messages with another device on the same origin, then no prompt to user.Feedback ???Record and pushMessage API.  API still seems to be about NFC primitives that it's trying to abstract.  My opinion is it's still not abstracted enough; that's summed up in my notes.
Travis: I think that's all I have.
timbl: In the spirit of extensible web, maybe 2 layers would be a good idea, if some people need the lower level.
Travis: I struggled with this concept:  interop between non-Web NFC devices and tags -- at some level need to have interop there; can't only focus on Web and new NFC messages.  Want to grandfather in existing NFC.  Keeps things well-tied at the low level but opens things up.
jyasskin: one reason not to do low level api right now is the security model.  Getting that figured out for something that has access to entire NFC protocol.  Exposes NFC record structure but not radio details.  Maybe not as high level as JSON messages back and forth, but much higher than what they originally had, and has good permission model.
Travis: Yes, not so much a critique but an observation of mine as I was looking at it.
Travis: Overall, well written and well-progressed; seemed fairly complete to me.
Plinss: have more notes?
Travis: yes, have them written up, will send out after meeting
[jyasskin leaves]

Agenda Item: Navigation Timing
alex: spending some hours now unerstanding how resource timing/nav timeing historical info.
... primary use case is for server logging. Client telling server how it's going becasue the data is hard to collect in other ways.
... In the field, some relied on toolbars/
Includes lots of info. When the download starts, the various events. Quite a few attributes are specified.
Nav timing 2 extends the original by understanding service worker interactions.
A few weirdisms (resource timing)
* It's hard to understand how long it took to load an element.
* It might be layerable
* Wondered to what extend this info is used by JS libraries
* Inside Google, it does map to how legacy systems collected data--so not a lot of novelty
* Overal, the API is good. Not particularly modern and takes a bit of time to understand the design metaphor
* Working group is being pretty forward thinking as far as new resources being introduced in other specs.
plins: next steps?
alex: I've written it all in a draft. We need to communicate back our feedback.
I think a lot of their examples are simplistic right now. I'd love to hear how they are considering JS libraries and how they are forming around them--and where would that feedback take them?
(you start low-level, and then consider adding high-level abstractions on top)
plins: send email, or other followup course?
alex: they are pretty responsive to email.

Review the Shadow DOM 2015 updates.
Travis not quite ready yet -- moved to Nov.11th telecon

Mnot: public service announcement:
... venue not quite finalized... stay tuned.
(if you stay in the city, you should be close to the venue)


