TAG meeting 19 Aug 2015

Present: Plinss, mnot, hadley, slightlyoff

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2015/telcons/08-19-webpush-agenda.md
*Call Agenda
		* WebPush Review
		* Review Payments WG Charter
		* Proposals for event synthesis and reusable a11y behavior

1. WebPush
mnot: I had a look... basically an HTTP-based protocol for doing notifications, for a specific use case. You have a notification server, and you set up a channel for that server to receive on, and you can aggregate connections. Goal: save radio power by not having multiple connections open.  Reasonably architected.
Not much feedback from a TAG point of view.  Uses HTTP well.  Might make comments from the HTTP point of view. But we can close the issue.

plinss: This is the ua to the push service?

mnot: It's both sides.

plinss: we talked about push notifications a long time ago in the TAG, and we wanted to know what was happening on the other side.  This helps.

mnot: reasonably specced out, so you can see the interopability.

plinss: so someone could have a web app that interacts with someone else's push service?

mnot: the idea is that your client uses a push service. Any other client is responsible for using that push service. 

Agreed: issue closed.

2. Review Payments WG charter

mnot: This charter — I'm not ready to close this issue. We should take a good look at it.  It's not clear to me what the actual deliverables are going to be.  A lot of documents.
I want to know, from them and the browsers, what browser support is necessary? And how do they feel?

Hadley: I know we started to talk about this at the Berlin F2F. 

Alex: if you look at the charter — isn't clear what's being proposed. That's a bit misdirected.  We should give that feedback.  I know from people in the Chrome team and at the workshop that there are proposals flying, they are concrete and there is interest. I've been helping with them. They are very much a thing reasonable to put in a UA.
From the perspective of the site in question, being able to have the UA understand that there might be a list of payments options — having it mediate with a potential back end re tokens, etc. — user agents can do this.

mnot: That's helpful.
I plan on writing some feedback as an AC rep. Do we have technical feedback as the TAG? Or do we think it's okay?

alex: The charter is too broad. I'd like to note that there are concrete technical proposals, chartering feels entirely premature. That's not technical feedback, though, and may be out of scope for me to say here.

Hadley: we in GDS have been discussing htis too — too broad. And hard to disambiguate from the IG.

mnot: "W3C plans to create groups on this space..." ? 
Alex: seconded.

Hadley: is that likely to be caught in W3C process? (what's implementable?)

Alex: I think we should move on; it should get sorted out in a group like the AC or the AB.  I'm not sure there's much technology for us to review here.
mnot: +1
hadley: +1

plinss: So, what to do with the issue?

mnot: Leave it open til the Sept F2F. The AC may comment, and we should then keep an eye on it.  

alex: Invite those working on concrete proposals to our F2F?

mnot: sure

3.  Proposal for event synthesis and reusable a11y behaviour
(issue 63)

slightlylate: There have been more discussions.  Dominic wil look at this more.  His work on HTML custom elements overlaps heavily.
I don't have personal thoughts. 
Let's schedule further follow-up at our f2f.  (After Boston). 
After talking to Cynthia Shelley from Microsoft... it might be something where there's a lot of overlap, and we can't tell yet where those groups are going to land. So we should follow up then.

4.  AOB 
slightlylate: folks on the HMTL Media Task Force want our feedback on secure stop and key reissuing. 
Architectural impacts: tries to create a behaviour where some bit of content can know that something stopped happening.  We need to think carefully about the implications on how UAs behave.
I'll create an issue in the spec review repository.

plinss: Next call: 2 Sept.  Let's discuss it then.

