TAG Teleconference

December 2, 2015

Present: Peter, Travis, Hadley, Dan, David, Yves, Mark

Scribe: Dan, Hadley, the boing noise

Bluetooth API Security Model

Topic: Keygen update!

Travis: Document put into the repo. Current when I checked a few weeks ago. No new feedback now.  I sent a mail to wwwTAG, and announced it with a pointer to it, asked for feedback.  Then I ducked.
...Only a few replies; surprisingly positive. There was one discussion saying, this is interesting but may be some work to look at FIDO in more detail and see how it addresses of these cases.
...Maybe we can add FIDO to our review list, now that it's in the W3C.
...Otherwise, we've accomplished what the issue was about, so I'm game to close it.
Dka: Any out-of-band feedback or issues on the document yet?
Travis: We have one issue filed, from Brad Hill:
...https://github.com/w3ctag/client-certificates/issues/1
...This looks very thorough. 
...Otherwise, no.  New friendships forming.
Peter: Next steps?
Travis: Just the specific issue in the spec review section; that item is done. But we have new follow ups now; should look at Brad's issue.
Peter: Do we have FIDO in the spec review queue yet?
Travis:  Will check.
dbaron: There are two versions of FIDO: the v1 that was implemented in Chrome, and the v2 that circulated to W3C.
Travis: When we had Israel and others engaged in the FIDO community, we were looking at that.  As long as it keeps changing, we can keep not having dependencies on it....
...I'll file an issue now to review the FIDO spec.
dbaron:  I know some Moz folks were looking at it. v1 and v2 were very different in terms of JS API practices.
Travis: link...
...FIDO 2.0 Web API for accessing FIDO 2.0 Credentials http://www.w3.org/Submission/2015/SUBM-fido-web-api-20151120/
dbaron: 1.0 specs are https://fidoalliance.org/specifications/download/
Travis: Filed new issue: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/97


Topic: Publishing the Security questionnaire

Yves: I'm making progress, need to discuss a few things with the Webmaster. Should be published next week
Peter: cool

Topic: Presentation API

Travis: At Sapporo, when we reviewed this with the Second Screen working group, they came back with some follow-up questions for us.
... https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61#issuecomment-152439245
... [they wanted to talk to us about our private mode spec]
... In their spec, they'd like you to say, "hey I'd like to connect to a second screen", and they want this second screen to start in a "clean state".  No cookies, etc.
... They were hoping to link to our Private Browsing spec to make that work.
... I think Ted O'Connor  said not to trust it.
Hadley: Yes, I thought we started it and then couldn't generate enough interest amoung impelementors...?
dka: Yes, this was Mark's, and I think he was working it into something that could generate interest. But just the feedback is interesting, that there is demand. The whole point of the spec was to generate those hooks, private mode as a context for other things.  We should let Mark know, and then come back to the question of what’s going to happen with this spec.
Travis: It would be good to ask the Second Screen working group what they need, to guide the future of the doc.
Hadley: Use cases! Always a good thing.
Travis: Okay, I'll do that.
...Re Issue 61, second item of feedback: actually a liaiason opportunity. Since they're casting a browser instance onto a second screen, it's a unique scario: the second screen may not have any user input whatsoever.  There are a few web platform features that require user input.  if Javascript calls the window.alert API for a pop-up box, which can only be dismissed by user input...? If you use javascript to trigger a file upload control, and it then brings up a user interface to allow the user to upload a file — that UI can only be dismissed by the user.
...Their ask was that we liaison these issues and identify all the places in the web platform that have these user requirements, and provide them an allowance to run in this kind of "headless" environment.
Hadley: Could be a lot of work, no?
Travis: Maybe not too much. WebRTC, for example: the APIs are designed around promises and the platform itself doesn't fail without user activity, it just fails a promise. And the APIs are asynchronous so they don't block things waiting for the user.
... So it's just the relatively narrow scope of APIs that block things until a user responds.
dbaron: This is one of the reasons people have been pushing hard for a lot of things to use promises and an asynchronous design.
...As far as the issues with alert(), etc., at the specification level, I hope these specs have enough woolliness in them to cope with this.  Or, if not, it ought to be detailed isues on specific specs.
...So this feels like a nit-picky thing on one spec or another.
  [ note afterwards:  though implementation issues might be distinct ]
Travis: if that’s the case, then great. I think they were concerned that it was a systemic problem.
…So I’d be happy to take the task to do that liaison.
Peter: I'm scanning the doc... Does the second session have any way of communicating back to the first session? Or knowing that it's in a presentation?
Travis: I believe it can pass messages back. I seem to recalll it being similar to postMessage. You'd get a message event with the origin of who sent you the message.  (The JavaScript code running that second screen)
Peter: Just running if any of those errors could run back into the first screen for the user input.  (Presuming you'd have a user there)
Travis: Sounds plausible, though it could get complicated if there were many connections back to that first screen.
Peter: And then you'd have to worry about security, phishing, etc.
... So you'll go back to Mark?
dka: I put an issue on the Private Mode document. Let's revisit on next meeting with Mark. 

[Enter Mark, stage left]
Travis: [summarising for Mark. Plot review for latecomers...]
Mark: that could be useful. But it's important to understand that there isn't concensus among browsers that you start the private session with a clean state.
Travis: Good point.
…We thought we should ask this WG for their specific requirements, to see if they can go into the Private Browsing spec.
Mark: I’m happy to talk to them, but I’m wary of overloading private browsing since it’s loaded already.
Hadley: What was it that made it contentious?
Mark: There just isn't concensus on how it should work. 
... My to-do is ... there was a survey in ~2012 on how this works across browsers. I want to update that, but it's a significant chunk of work.
...There's also been interest from WebAppSec on this too, to have a hook to tie into.
...That seems to be the primary use case.
...So I'm happy to discuss that, I just want to make sure this is what they need; not that they're trying to latch on to something because it's what they can find.
Travis: I'll take that back to them.

Topic: Extensible Web Summit Melbourne Edition

 https://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2015/12/02/ews-melbourne/
dka: We now have a blog post, with a registration form... Get the word out.  
Peter: We should also update extensibleweb.org
dka: Yes, I'll do that.
...Also, lightning talks.  (This is soon, especially since a lot of people will be out along the end of the year. We should discuss our call schedule between now and then too.)
...We're trying to contact Marcos and Dean Jackson
...If you have any ideas for lightning talks, send them to me or Mark.
...We should also look at the agenda for the meeting itself. 

dka: question on who should curate the lightning talks...
Mark: Why don't we open a new channel in slack for that?
dka:  okay.

Topic: upcoming calls

Peter: we currently have calls on the 23rd and 30th.  
Travis: I don't think I can do either.
dka: I think those dates are ambitious. BUT that means we only have one call scheduled before Melbourne F2F. 
Peter: so — cancel 23rd and 30th.
Hadley: works for me.


