Minutes for 29-07-2015 TAG teleconference

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2015/telcons/07-29-presentationAPI-agenda.md

hadleybeeman, dbaron, plinss, travis

f2f minutes publishing: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2015/07-ber/agenda.md
Presentation API: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61
File URI: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/59

---
Some notes on beyond http2 work from Mark. Good conversations.

---
Topic: Presentation API Review (https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/blob/master/2015/presentation-api.md)

Travis: first spec review. I read it. Separate us cases doc with some detail
https://github.com/w3c/presentation-api/blob/gh-pages/uc-req.md
…[talks through some of the use cases - share poker game, shared screen scenarios presentation in a meeting context]…
…from an architectural perspective, at the top of the platform spe. Spec doesn't explain how the user agent can discover the 2nd screen, enumerate devices it can know, the security model… assumes there is a
…technology stack underneat. That the user has access to a discover mechanism. EG chromecast, DLNA. They want to make it easy for the web developer to take advantage of that technology.
…reminded me of WEBRTC. 
…presentation property give syou features for requesting access to a 2nd screen.
…you can make an async request to start a new session, or wait around for a 2nd screen event to fire…
…if availabel you can request to start a new session or join an existing session…
…bits of data are a URL - the destination for the content you want to load on a 2nd screen – doesn't have to be same origin.
…together with that URL you pass a session ID - you can have multiple sessions associated with a URL - and these are associated with unique javascript objects
…the API gives you access to a session object which looks like a shared worker.
…can pass json payloads messages…
…uses the term "browsing context" i.e. a tab
…joining a 2nd screen session - the user agent creates a new browsing context on the 2nd screen - starting a new session launches a new browsing window on the 2nd screen display
[talking through review document]
[issues around lack of same origin policy...]
…way to start and join a session is overly complex
…directly addressing questions – 
…seems everyone would have to be using the same user agents?
…

David: trying to understand what scenrios this covers. Is it like a chromecast where you send a URL to have it display that? It's not quite clear to me what it is.

Travs: the use case allows for that scenario but it doesn't define any protocol for that

David: the whole thing about a URL + a session identitifer; not clear to me how that works; if 2 computers are trying to present to same screen...?  Over what space are the session identifiers common/unique?

?

Dan: should we organize a future session to delve into these questions further withsome group of people form the working group?

Travis: …this seems like it's moving in the right direction.

[more discussion of review]

Dan: Could we have a session on this in september with members of the group at the coming f2f in Boston?

Travis: yes we should talk to them.

---
Topic: URI Scheme https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/pull/65/files

Yan: [talks through her review]

Travis: are we going to get into trouble having a URL standard defining that and an IETF standard defining it?

Hadley: could have been an issue with the data on the web working group- best practices for URIs for data. What we have righ tnow in draft form - pretty high level.

Dan: Next step?

Yan: ask mark if he has any thoughts?

---

Topic: Logistics for f2f

We are definitely committed to the 14-16 of September in Boston (Cambridge)



