TAG Call - 28 September 2016


Guests: David Rogers (Copper Horse), Dominique Lazansky (GSMA)
Present: Hadley, Dan, Peter, David Baron, Andrew. Yves, 
Regrets (tech fail): Wendy

(missed something about ITU study groups ??, 17, and 20)
Dominique: coming from a public policy rather than technical perspective.  ITU been involved in this since 2007 or earlier.  Idea of digital object architecture (inv. of Bob Kahn), and handle system -- primarily used as document management system for physical assets and IP-related assets.  In last ???, ITU, which should be technology neutral, has taken on idea along with countries like China, Russia, and Saudi Arabia, trying to adopt this as alternative to Internet for Internet of Things.  DONA foundation administers technical functions.  Countries set up MPAs, like DNS, runs equivalent of root servers.  DONA to liase with them to roll out DOA and handle system.  China has used DOA after baby milk crisis; putting labels into canisters and scanning them.  Saudi Arabia using to track medical devices, and now other things.  MoU signed between the ITU and the DONA foundation... Among other things, it means that if anything happens ot the DONA foundation, the ITU is the backup authority. 

Article [URL] - http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/technology/295320-how-russia-and-the-un-are-actually-planning-to-take-over-the 

Peter : it's frightening what can we do about it?

Hadley: it's frightening for a number of reasons - makes filtering easier, central control of what's on the internet, not backwards compatible. Is a great set-up for organisations to control what people see [on the internet]. The ITU is mostly governments involved - not so much industry.  Might not get momentum in ITU... [?] Possibility 1 is for it not to succeed the ITU. ITU is a UN body. so you have to get countries to put up a fuss - thus far a lot of them do not. Another possibility is: there are standards out there that nobody uses. We could look to orgs like web foundation that has presence in developing countries to see if there's scope to stop it on that front:

David Rogers: attention in ITU is extremely high. politifcal motivation behind it. some countries have foreign policy tthat ITU should "control the interenet." ...  Could be used to identify and control copyrighted works. Wanted for attribution... for cyber-attacks. 

dka: I understand the momentum in the ITU is strong... where is the point at which this becomes a threat to the internet or to the web?  vs a para-system for identfiying products or things in a more commercial sense. I'm struggling to connect the dots between the proposal I was reading and what I'm hearing about the work in the ITU... and what the existential threat to the web is that the TAG could exert some influence. Either with IETF or...? Is it about identification, hey, we already have the URI for identification for things on the web....?

david rogers: that was the discussion at the IETF in 2004, when Bob Kahn brought it there. So it was only published as an informational RFC.

dka:  the ITU rec mentions URIs... sounds like it's trying to build on top of it.  From a co-chairing perspective... what can we do that would help to raise awareness? Or represent TAG opinion?

Dan: What TAG work item could come out of this?
Hadley: my understanding thus far is there aren't many technical voices in these discussions at the moment... Is that true?
David: Pretty much

Hadley: So if we were to inject some technical expertise, where would we aim it?

Dominique : from public policy pov..  WTSA in October. making nosie

David: a technical statement would be very useful. Could make some very strong statements about URIs. This is about fragmentation of the internet. something like the article by tim & danny w would be good.

Hadley: Does the media have an impact on the ITU?

David: yes it can... 

David...

Dan: We could start a finding -- a technical document that critiques the DONA approach from a technical PoV, especially from a perspective of web architecture. (e.g. the URI already exists) We could build up a finding. 

IETF discussions from 2004. Scalability, security, resilience.

Peter: I agree we should keep it technically focused but we do have some remit for policy - we can seay the web is successful because it relies on a set of attributes that are required. Relies on certain features to resist censorship (e.g.) and theyese are things that the DOI does not give us. "Humanitarian Features"

Hadley: I think where these humanitarian features are things the web relies on -  there are non-code-based behavioural stuff that is fundamental [to the web].

Peter: we did some [policy] stuff e.g. in the unsantioned tracking finding. We could point to that and say "xyz feature of DOA allows for unsanctioned tracking."

David: Timeline - this meeting is the last week of October. How realistic is it we coould come to a finding before the 23rd of October? 

Peter: Yes we could do that.  It would be easier if we had a f2f meeting between now and then. Also, we need to involve more TAG members in the discussion
Yves: Wendy Seltzer should also be part of the discussion.

ACTION: Hadley to start a core of a finding. And we will work within the TAG to get something out before the 23rd of October.  

Dominique: All the contributions for this meeting will be in before the 10th of October.  http://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T/wtsa16/Pages/default.aspx - should be ideally out by 20th or so.




