Minutes - TAG Teleconference 

26-oct-2016

Present: Travis, Hadley, Peter, David, Dan, Yves, Andrew

--
DOA
Hadley: pasted text 

[discussion on potential response to DOA work from TAG]

[consensus to put together a blog post]

[how does this slot in to the protocol stack?]

Hadley to finish up something and Dan to re-circulate to Tim, Mark, Wendy, etc... to try to get final feedback before we discuss and approve publication of something on Monday.

--
Custom Paint

Travis:  [?]

David: alternative that came to mind was window.css - 

Travis: start of a whole new name space?

David: Worth filing an issue on the topic in Houdini repo?  I can do it.

Alex: . light on example code ... 

David: I agree - don't have a good pictre of how the worklet stuff works not seeing example code.

Alex: We need to see how this works end-to-end; we need more in the explainer doc

Travis: they don't have it tied together...

[Discussion on how cool the name "worklet" is.]

Travis: detail is good - lots of good things in the spec

Peter; so not objecting to it moving forward as long as those issues get addressed?

Travis: yes not objecting ; i had some editorial nits and I will file as issues as well

[David to write up notes and get it back to them]

--
Peter

Anything we need to do to prep for the meeting?

--
Dan : Brian K. prompted two items: polyfill best practies and maybe pollyfill 

--
Polyfill Best Practices & Naming

Andrew: following discussion / issue brought this to light:
https://github.com/jonathantneal/document-promises/issues/4#issuecomment-256218742

Is there an issue with polyfils that match the name of a feature?

A "tipping point" ... ?

Travis: if you treat the polyffill as an implementaion of the spec then it's it the responsibility of the polyfill author to update?

Andrew: also polyfills are difficult to update in the wild...

David: Relationship to the "evergreen web" concept:

Dan: yes just thinking of that

Andrew: should there be cannonical polifills - official polyfill implementations of that spec....

Dan: does polyfil.io do any testing/ certification

Andrew: kind of - we have a test suite - there has been a fractius debate over whether polyfills should be subject to web platform tests. Polyfill authors can't or it's difficult for them to do that... some featyres impossible to replicate... or unpopular functionality which are not bothered to implement int he polyfill. That said regardless, polyfills are useful and do promote adoption of those features. there needs to be a differetn thresheshold or quality standard for polyfills vs. native implementations...

Dan: Could folow into a polyfill best practice;

Andrew: it feels to me what we're here for...


