*TAG Teleconference - 01-jun-2016

Chair: Dan
Present: Travis, Hadley, David, Andrew, Yves, Dan, Mnot, TimBL


Scribe: 

		* Cross-spec Device ID - Travis
		* CSP - Mark
		* Relative URLs and pushState() - ?
		* URNbis Documents - Mark
		* Indexed DB - Alex
		* WAPA Proposal - Alex
		* Credential Management API - Travis
		* Performance Observer - Alex



-- 
Cross-spec device ID (travis) https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64
Travis: we talked about it in Boston and in September. We left it as Travis to write this down in design principles document. So went ahead and did that.
...finally: https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/ - created an entire new section for devices - made a sub-category for IDs and then wrote some stuff down...
... to document that list we had in the issue.
Hadley: we had a conversaiton recently about the fingerprinting potentential for cross-site device IDs...
Travis: I got some feedback from the issue opener - I had written about device IDs and not about spec device IDs...
... e.g. if there's a way to identify a device .. should the identifier to be expressed the same way...
... concern was - if webbluetooth and webrtc both access a device is it a problem for them know if it's the same device even if it's different identifiers...
... bottom line is - bit I wrote in principles doc doesn't talk about sharing of IDs.
Hadley: use case Tim had in mind was printing to the same device regardless of protocol...
... seems like a useful use case but haven't heard of it as a problem for the web.
Travis: [clarifying on use case] - from a web platform PoV, right now you say "print" and that prompts the UA UI to guide you through the experience... 
... 
Hadley: Use case referenced in previous meeting: https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/04-05-2016-minutes.md
Yves: ... not globally unqiue - everytime you re-do the auth you get a different ID - prevent fingerprinting - unique for a session for example... that's one way to prevent fingerptinting. A printer should have a URI.
Travis: media capture folks talked about the complicated process of choosing a camera - since the author of the web site might have criteria on what kind of camera they want - all part of the API.
... from the device the app gets an identifier - they can store it in indexdb and then it doesn't have to go through complicated set-up process.
... that's what they've spec'd today.
... gives a guarantee of device ID consistency from the same origin.
Hadley: That makes sense; the user would expect it to be consistent within one origin.
Travis: to date we haven't had any other spec that's needd to access cameras.. but web bluetooth or webusb... 
... 
... [discussion on scope, e.g. when a device is being accessed through multiple APIs...]
David: WebUSB is a lowe level thing but gated on origin...
Travis: yes, device manufacturer ships with only certain origins allowed...
David: the assumption that two specs may not be accessing the same device might be mostly true but not 100% true, e.g., for a new device category that starts off being accessed via WebUSB but later gets its own API...
Hadley: worries me - closing that off for the future...
Dan: shouldn't the other API not know?
Travis: if you want to correlate data across same device...? Access camera for one reason then access it again...
Andrew: a use case for discovering a device by one mechanism but then using it by another ...
Hadley: that sounds exploitable.
Travis: wonder if you could aaccomplish that by extending existing API... like media element - it's got this setup where you can plug in a media source.. hook it up to a media stream... 
... youve got these intermediary objects...
... do we need a more fundamental identifer?
Dan: maybe expand on these in the doc and get some feedback?
Travis: yes and let's revist at Stockholm.


--
CSP 
Mark: I had a look through the spec - it looks very reasonable. I had something different in mind. CSP 1 and 2 started off as monolithic things. now extenstions can be defined. Newer CSP directives go into extenstions. That's a reasonable approach.
... I had a look through it. Gave mike a bit of feedback....
... the other big thing he does in this spec is switching to fetch... 
... but it seems like a sane thing thing to.
... from  TAg perspective I think we can close this spec review. We should have a talk about fetch but that's separate.

[lively discussion on fetch and living standards]


Tim: do you think there's a need for another [spec] outside of the browser?

Mark: some constraints [of fetch] can be lifted with flag. 

[discussion on potential implementation of curl]
Mark: one of Anne's goals for fetch is to make it compatible with as much web content as possible. if curl were to impleement fetch then you get better compatability... 
... how much browsers implement fetch vs being aspirational is another discussion...

Mark: wgatwg defines web as what the browser can do - and then there's the view that web is inforation space defined by URIs. I think both can co-exist.

[Dan: +1]

[discussion on curl and fetch]
Mark: around corner cases, and error handling.. http protocol - we couldn't specify error handling for all those differnet cases. fetch says what to do in every situation.

Dan: getting back to issue 42...
Mark: i think csp2 looks good.
Travis: fwiw I agree. I think it's good.

--
URNBis - 
MarK: I took an action to dig a bit more.
... I asked questions from wg chairs about context of this work ...
... I think we're at a place where they're not going to redefine the smantics of / or of frag identifiers in a way incompatible with current use. Query strings yes, but not that we need to worry about.
... I think the draft [needs to be re-written] so I'm going to go into the IETF and argue that.
... but I don't think there's an architectural issue ...
... 

PWAs:
    
Andrew: some in the community seem to be taking PWAs as reinventing the web for mobile. Concerned this takes us bactk o platofmr specific uses of the web - m. etc... no cannonical address for content.
... no consensus on which way this PWAs initiative is pushing people.
... jeremy keith argued that PWAs are in principle a good idea but should be used to create web sites for all platforms...
... issue with URLs is whether you see them or not...
...Google's lighthouse tool insists that UA not display URL...
... jeremey keith says that's a terrible idea.
... alex's response is that "we're working on it"
... I think that's an unfortunate stop-gap.
Dan: do we need a statement?
Andrew: yes - issue of canonical content - are we incentivising developers to create multiple coppies of content for differnet platforms. also progressive as a concept. Progressive as currently defined seem to be the opposite of progresive...
David: I think the other issue with the term is that google has ownership of that. - having a validator for whetehr you are one... 
Andrew: i don't think tey were - progressive enhancement was well understood.

[discussion of pwa.washingtonpost.com]





