TAG Teleconf
7 December 2017

--

Peter, Travis, Yves, Dan

--

		* Design Principles Issue Triage
		* PaymentRequest.canMakeActivePayment() - David, Travis
		* MediaStream Image Capture - Alex, Travis
		* Proposed Process Improvements - Andrew
		* Polyfill Finding update - Andrew
		* Evergreen Web Finding Update - Dan

--

triaging the issues on the design principles document
done
we will report back on these issues on next week's call - we will assign these to future calls on an as-needed basis



Feedback on Polyfill finding:
Dan: notes that we shouldn't be having substantive google doc comments... we probably need to bring the doc into Github (so that it has an issue registry etc.)
All: sounds good.
Andrew: I will transfer the doc to markdown, and comments into issues.
  2 major issues:
       1. (brian raised) concern (our prefernce) to play-down the word "prolyfill" as he understands it to be widely used/ship sailed. Andrew's perspective (in Japan) is that natives can't even say the word!.
       
Dan: The extended words for polyfill (like Prollyfill) seem a bit ridiculous.
Andrew: I think this would benefit from a strong concensus around encouraging these others words from spreading.
Tim: Alex is constantly apologizing for "Service Worker". So, what could we call it? (Things that actually make sense--e.g., "client-side proxies"). Not slighting those working in the service industry... Polyfill also doesn't have same cultural understanding as it does from UK.
Andrew: Perhaps it warrents a separate statement of support (deeper impact of naming choices).
Tim: cite American english in HTML spec :-)
Andrew: Pollyfill (spec compliance); Prollyfill ("probably-fill" would be a standard if it exists).
Tim: seems reasonable that even a JS library would be standard-izable.
Andrew: so, no agreement to reduce the terminology?
Dan: Aren't we enlarging the term's scope a bit? Polyfill is the "super-term" and the other terms are "sub-terms" or sub-categories. We don't encourage the other terms because they can be confusing to web devs.
David: I'm concerned about Polyfill having too many meanings for things that are similar. A little concern about prollyfill being a sub-category of polyfill. 
Dan: "Speculative" Polyfill is not a sub-class?
Andrew: you either 1) gather all under the term, or 2) use multiple terms to cover the various aspects/usages of polyfills
   We could use the ECMA system of "levels" stage 0, 1, 2, 3 features with definitions. Stage 0 is not a standard, stage 4 is a standard...
   
        2. Dominics objection to polyfills in general; harmful to the web to creat libararies where it defers to implementation where exists, and otherwise, substitutes.

Tim: Browser people see ther world a little differently... wonder if it is a question of accuracy of implementation. 
Andrew: Browsers have bugs in their native implementations too.
Tim: seems a bit arrogant: "if others can't do it right, then they shouldn' do it" but that's exactly what they should do! What is the counter-proposal?
Dan: think we should stick to the essense of this finding. We should move forward with this.


