W3C TAG Teleconference - 20 APril 2016

On webRTC - where?

Present: Dan, Peter, Hadley, Mark, Travis, Yves, Andrew, Alex, David
Guest: Tobie (covering sensor API topic:
Scribe: David / Travis

	* Sensor API - Travis - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/110
	* WebUSB - David - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/108
	* requestIdleCallback - David - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70
	* CORS for Developers draft - how do we want to engage? - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AtxTDw-g9BSRW9n9kGTTqNkDTGcVfSKPAOjVGkPFu2k/edit

Travis: spec seemed very thorough.  Foundational document for how to design and build a sensor API.  Describes basic shared component that all sensors should have.  Brings some consistency to where we've had a variety of API design styles.    
Travis: when you get into the use cases, gets into idea that some apis designed from a high level perspective.  Being high level doesn't allow extending use cases very much; prevents low level cases from being useful.
Travis: In this particular spec have opprotunity to expose/reexpose some ofthese sensors using low or high level approach.
Travis: We're talking about gyroscope, ambient light, proximity sensors.
Travis: Scoping section describes extent to which spec is ??? to apply.  Scoped to local sensors.  Leaving out sensors you can read fro mthe Internet or other remote places.
Tobie: I talked to WoT folks and automotive people.  Took a while to get to this point.  But made sense not to include what they were doing in the same story.
Travis: Also scoped out generic mechanism for discovering multiple kinds of sensors.
Travis: Typically there's only one kind of sensor per sensor classification -- typcially only one motion sensor, etc.  Seems appropriate for now.
Travis: Would have been nice to see up front what are examples of sensors you're considering.
Travis: Would be nice to see examples in the scoping section.
Travis: General thoughts: I like that this is bringing a degree of unification to Web platform.  Consistency/cohesiveness for developers.
Travis: Is this too late?  Geolocation is out there already.  Are we intending to reexpose geolocation, and is that worth it?
Tobie: w.r.t. geolocation, it's not super-clear what the geolocation group wants to do at this point.  But warming up to have the next version be built on top of the generic sensor api.  Device orientation something we're planning to tackle this year:  that's multiple sensors (gyroscope, accelerometer, etc.).  Going to be 5-8 different sensors, position & direction of device.  Then all of ambient light, proximity, not really implemented and make sense to move to this.  Then new stuff like pressure sensor.  All in all, looking at 5-6 to 12 sensors that would make sense to build on top of this API.  Whether that ends up including geolocation or not, not sure, can't confirm right now.  Geolocation feels a tad different from the others; more high level.  kind of borderline anyway.  If that doesn't make it I don't think it makes the rest of the effort worthless.
Travis: Focusing on lower level senors as primyary focus makes sense.  Geolocation could coexist.
Alex: Geolocation is interesting; a synthesis.  Raises the question of exensibility.  (SCRIBE MISSED A BUNCH)
Tobie: Alex wants to know if people can create own high level sensors using low level ones using this API.
Alex: Yes.  Can I make a synthesizer from other inputs that would be an instance of this API?
Tobie: This is one of the things I wanted to achieve, but think I failed, because I don't see how right now Web platform / WebIDL, lets us plug in *** objects in a meaningful way.
Alex: I think you now have the wiring to do it with ES6 and ??? builtins.  Not sure we have it in every instance & easy to do with WebIDL.
Tobie: If you can actually help me do this, this is one of initial goals with this, dropped b/c I wasn't sure how to do it.
Tobie: Conceptually it's absolutely possible.
Tobie: That's one of the goals of exposing low level stuff.  Can do own application-level sensor fusion for specific use cases.
Tobie: Not sure you can expose it with the same APIs now, but could do with custom APIs.  But would like library API to be able to ship generic sensor API subclass, e.g., a pedometer.
Travis: ??? to something happening in the custom elements space where you can subclass various builtins.
Alex: ... a new class.  May have more in common with JS semantics than DOM.
Tobie: It is a subclass of EventTarget, so that's bad in itself.
Tobie: More than happy to open ticket and have discussion on that topic
Alex: Let's do it.
Travis: So the rest of my notes:  This is written on spec-reviews issue for you to follow up on.  Feature detection section very nice.  You have one example there that doesn't use feature detection, try/catch block, but wasn't sure what was throwing.
Tobie: That's the problem of this whole thing.  Distinction between feature detection and API detection which are 2 different things.  As soon as you're taking about things doing I/O, you don't know if they're on the device or not.  Having API for thing not same as having thing on device.  Number 2, given that you have the secure context issue, which means that you'll throw if not https(constructor will throw), and question of whether in top window or not (will also throw if not topleve browsing context), so have to have try/catch around this thing anyway.  So feature detection just by virtue of having to have try/catch block, and not being able to get information as to whether have sensor on device or not, no longer really makes sense.  What are you going to be feature detecting?  Even if API is there, have to have try/catch since the API might throw.
Travis: I think I understand now that you explained it, but would have helped to have examples follow thought chain, e.g., start with feature detect, then explain not toplevel document, then just try/catch.
Travis: You had a not eabout figerprinting.  Wrote that user agent could limit rate of event firing.  Note Wondering if that's necessary.  I put a link to unsanctioned tracking finding.  Our conclusion was that we can't solve these kinds of issues.  I think the conclusion is that we want to be careful, but ultimately we can't prevent it from happening.  So the way to fight is through policy rather than technical means.  So it may not be necessary to have the comment in the spec about how to mitigate fingerprinting by limiting frequency of firing events.  One thing finding points out is that these sorts of things should be under user's control if they can.   Maybe user agents provide ability to opt out of providing various sensors to web page at all.  (Yet another reason for try/catch.)
Tobie: All of them will be be hind permissions anyway.
Tobie: One of things I've been thinking about is the idea that it's cool to expose really low level sensors, but for a lot of use cases low level sensors aren't really useful.  Frankly, right amount of lux -- all you really want to know is light or dark place.  When moving to high level settings like that, you're lowering by a wide margin the fingerprinting issues.  I'm toying with the idea of making high level sensors available without permissioning, so developers would be highly incentivized to use those rather than lo
(MINUTE TAKER DISCONNECTED FOR 30 SECONDS)
Alex: Should use permissions API to guard access even where we don't think you need permissions, because we've changed our mind in the past about whether things need a prompt.  Permissions API usage doesn't mean there will always be a prompt.  e.g., accelerometer use to detect keyboard input and therefore passwords.
Alex: Related question about sampling rate:  if sampling rate is very high, worry about main thread jank if sensor input goes to main thread.  Can sensor input directed to a worker?
Tobie: V2 material, but have no idea how to do it right now.
Tobie: 2 big things I want to tackle:  how to handle sensors in workers and permission issues about those, and sensors in service workers:  is there a generic way to build a pedometer in a service worker in the background and just measure and put in a DB.  Don't know how to handle those right now.
Travis: Tobie, how'd you arrive at limiting to toplevel browsing context.
Tobie: That's what current sensors are doing and implementors (ones I'm talking to) are doing.
Travis: Concerned about having exposed in an iframe.
Tobie: Like the camera.  If the user gives permission, exposing UI to the user.  I just copied.
Travis: I'm curious if you just use iframes for some modularity reason and all frames were in the same origin, is there a concern?
Tobie: My reasoning was that I want to ship a spec that allows me to build on top of it sensors using the API that have the same capabilities that have the ones shipped today.  If afterwards we find use cases we can open up and add new features, but I deliberately scoped those out of the first version.
Dan: What's the destination / time frame?
Tobie: Happening in the device and sensors WG (formerly device API)  We'll be announcing shortly on mailing list; goal to have a bunch of sensors spec'd by end of year.
Dan: Is this feedback useful?  How can TAG help?
Tobie: my biggest question is how does -- when you read the ambient light spec, which I built on top of it.  How does it read, is it understandable?  And can I write the other 8 specs using this pattern?  I want to stick as much stuff in the generic sensor API as I can so writing a concrete sensor is about figuring out concrete data, ?,  and figuring out specific security/privacy concerns.  That makes writing a concrete sensor spec, and implementing, is fast.  So do the generic sensor API and ambent light spec make sense -- any red flags -- before I write 5 more of them.  Esp. about how the 2 specs interact with each other.
Travis: Briefly, 3 more things:
Travis: A timestamp property returns a DOMHighResTimeStamp.  Wonder if would be good idea to convince DOM spec to put onto core Event.
Tobie: It just changed, in WHATWG spec, about 8-10 weeks ago.  So now DOM events actually high res right now.
Travis: Seems like a breaking change.  Pages and pages of threads on the topic.
Alex: Has anyone actually implemented that?  Can't imagine it's possible.
Tobie: not really interested in that debate.  If events use it, I will, if not, I'll use it for readings but not events.
Travis: There's a sensor error event with an error type, maybe could be DOMException.
Travis: Detail in algorithm of section 9.1, where using the incumbent settings object.
Travis: I didn't read the ambient light sensor spec, so can't draw conclusions about how they relate, but maybe we could do that on another day.
Travis: I know we have a review for ambient light that's assigned to Dan.  Maybe when we do that we can compare notes.
Tobie: And Alex had comments.
Tobie: For my work that's the most important point.  Want to make sure it's understandable and people implement it properly. 


Topic: WebUSB
Alex: Reilly Grant lead of WebUSB team here and editor of spec.
Reilly: 
David: Trying to remember the London discussion. One issue I filed on the spec was: the permission model. Part of the answer was that is wasn't as ridgid as we thought.
Reilly: Can provide a bit more background on our decision to provide a more CORS like access model. UA is flexible to implement whatever mechanism they want.. (embedded may have another mechanism), the one in the spec (implemented in BLink) takes a conservative approach based on historical USB vulns, and limits of what user can understand. Not quite like Geoloc permissions :) We wanted another level of protection based on the device vendor itself. Interested in what folks in the TAG are thinking about that and any other tech details you may have.
Alex: Talked about the possibility of a chooser model... where user could authenticate based on a choice beyond that which shipped with the device.
Reilly: Yes, that seems like a possible extention that could happen.
Alex: Could maybe have an advanced UI (outside of the normal flow). 
Reilly: Would require essentially a "setup" step--not just a simple permission. Really want to let the user know before breaking out of the vendor-specified unlock. Perhaps a little outside of the scope of the spec.
David: I think having some of what you described in the spec would really help. Did anyone else have any issues? Mark?
Travis: Wondering how you would update it to add more origins from the list?
Reilly: Firmware update with an interface to modify the list. First point of access could be done via iframe embedding. We're looking at figuring out a model to use this within Service Workers.
