TAG Telcon 17 Aug 2016

Present:Andrew, Peter, Dan, David, Travis
Scribe: Dan
Regrets: Yves, Hadley

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/08-17-agenda.md

Punted privacy to 7th of Sept

Issue 116: Filters in Canvas 2D  - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/116

David: I filed a bunch of issues all linked from the issue. I filed a bunch of issues in their repo and made a note in each one linking back ot the TAG issue.
... this is taking a CSS feature and letting it be used in Canvas.
... canvas APIs - some of them use CSS syntax and some don't - case insensitivity - 
... this property was trying to do a combination of the two in a single property - I filed an issue
... I think I talked ... into changing that.
... Some other nitty gritty details
... filters' bonding boxes - filters clipping to a bounding box
... from a higher level I didn't see anything problematic here.

Peter: presumably the canvas can also have CSS filters applied throgh CSS

David: Yes - the canvas is like an image.

Peter: clearly defined or just implied?

David: I think it falls out of the way everything works...

Peter: Both take a list of functions...

David: canvas filters apply on any future drawing operations to that canvas

David: I was also concerned about the atomicity of the operations.

Dan: close the issue?

David: Yes I think it can be closed - it woudl be nice to see what some of the feedback is.

Peter: Let's close this and if some of the feedback comes back to us cause more issues we can open a new issue or reopen.

[closed - woo hoo!]

TPAC

Dan: I think we need to organize 

David: also see https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ac-members/2016JulSep/0023.html

Dan: Ok we need a discussion with Ralph... [done]

Topic: Cross-spec device IDs https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64

Travis: [rummaging] ... Just need to follow up on some of the comments on this issue. I'll write some notes in.

[bumped to next week]


