TAG Teleconference
27- Jan - 2016

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/01-27-agenda.md

		* Automotive (Travis) - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/81 [punted]
		* "With Credentials" flag - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76 
		* Changing the call time? (Mark) (see potential times) - https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/wiki/Potential-teleconference-times [punted]
 
Present: DKA, Andrew, dbaron, (special guest star) Brian Kardell, Travis, Yves, Alex
Regrets: Peter, Hadley
Scribe: DKA

---

Automotive: punted until next week.

Topic: With Credentials

Dan: I'm worried about this with credentials issue.

[what jonas said]

Yves - it seems that the documentatiuon for the average web developer is lacking.

Travis: I spoke to Anne on Monday. I brought up the issue of redirects - they're failure. Anne says he may have fixed that in fetch. The way he wrote the fetch spec prose indicates that when a redirect
would happen the system resets and starts a new preflight request connecting to the redirected server. He (anne) doesn't see security problems with it - it's a full restart. His intention is to leave it 
this way. In theory if implementations impleemnt it this way then it would be fixed.

Alex: What's the fix?

Travis: previoulsly a redirect would error out. You were unable to make a CORS request if there was a redirect. the change is (in the prose) is that a new CORS request to the redirected resource is
started from scratch.

Andrew: This applies to requests that require preflighting?

Alex: the change here would be - the thing we're looking for is that you don't have to know ahead of time if the request would need CORS or an explicit with-credential flag set

Travis: that aspect is unchanged - you have to manually retry if the CORS request fails - you still have to know if you need credentials. I'm parsing Jonas's response to know if it's still necessary - pro
tecting the server or the client?

Alex: in terms of ddos?

Travis: in terms of info disclosure.

Brian: I don't think it's protecting the sevrer - it's about not sending your information.

Alex: 
    
Dan: Issues are:
      (1)
      (2) webarch issue that TimBL brought up
      (3) 
      
Brian: what is the aim? XHR exposes this to the developer. Fetch is supposed to explain what's down there past XHR. If XHR has with-credentials flag then Fetch needs to explain it. It seems
inescable to me that that's the case.

Travis: it boils down to the same origin policy. that policy si there to protect users and CORS was built to work around that.

Brian: First issue is : does TAG take issue with Fetch explaining what's down there.

Travis: answer to that is no the TAG does not take issue.

[consensus exists on this point]

Brian: TAG can take up the separate issues of is CORS under-documented or should we be searching for a new solution

Dan: it's not a debate (on fetch explaing XHR) - that's the extensible web.

Travis: the 2nd issue is Tim's case.

Travis: tim's case is about why can't he get the resource he wants by just using the URL

Dan: his comment is not about fetch specifically but to do with with credentials....

Brian: but that ship sailed a long time ago.  We could come up with an alternative but it's out there and been shipping for a long time.

Travis: tim is saying (I think?) - doesn't it seem like a failure that you as a Web developer have to retry your request with the with-credentials flag...

Yves: and because you don't know what errror you get back?

Brian: only if you're ok ...

Andrew: feels not dissimilar to having to try if your credentuals are correct. I'm concerned about the redirect issue.

Traviis: you can request data from site A knowingly sending credentials and then unknowingly have your credentials sent to side B.

Andrew: your request might randomly fail AND your credentials might go somewhere you don't intend.

Dan: doesn't Anne's solutuon address that?

Travis: sounds like it.

Brian: Does it only effect things requring preflight?

Andrew: shouldn't - because with credentials would be set for other (non-preflight) requests...

Brian: would the change Anne made - if there's not an options call... 

Andrew: are the 3 issues (1) potential mismatch with webarch (2) redirects (3) dev's requirement for prior knowledge whether they need CORS or not?

David: whether they need CORS or whether they need with-credentials?

Alex: there's something happening here (what it is ain't exactly clear) part of the reason  - there's nothing simple you can do that will just work.  There isn't a bucket of configuration options that just works.   I have to know the configuration options out of band for any particular URL.

Dan: could we decompose this into 3 separate issues which could be resolved separately?

Travis: when you have a URL you generate all kind of requests e.g. client certs which are lower level than the URL and the with credentials knowledge is happening above the level...

Alex: can't distungish CORS failures from other network failures...

Brian: is that per spec?

Alex: Yes, to prevent things like internal IP (...)? ...

Brian: I don't think this is consistent in XHR, IIRC in chrome it looks like an HTTP error status, in FF not... IIRC.

Five :) new issues:
    
    1. With-credentials means you have to know information out of band about the URL which goes against web arch (long term question - potential protocol redesign)  ***  
    2. Should fetch include with-credentials flag, given the current state of the world? [general agreement that yes it should] *** 
    3. Redirects potentially exposing credentials where they're not meant to go  *** 
    4. I can't distinguish CORS failures from regular network failures?
    5. incomplete documentation around CORS and with-credentials [Alex: they all interact in subtle ways]
    
Brian: do you think fetch should include with_credentials?

Travis: process of spec'ing fetch is great; question is whether with-credentials is the right long-term thing

Brian: agree

Brian: i don't know that the documentation is poor it's just for implementers not developers. 

Travis: I had success when I searched Google - nicely written articles on CORS - they exist.

Brian: question for Alex - were you saying it's not cut and dried that fetch should expose with-credentials?

Alex: 
    
Brian: Currenty it takes a with-credentials flag - 

Alex: Default is not to send credentials by default.

Brian: as currently written it takes a with-credentials flag - when you set the flag on xhr it passes it down to fetch. This explains reality and probably needs to be there.

Alex: is the debate that the default should be the other way or that it shouldn't be exposed. I think it should be exposed. 

Yves; I agree. I don't think Tim is agains tthe fact that we have with-credentials - it's that you don't know in which state you are. It could be fixed with an error exposed saying you need with-credentials or "do the right thing."

Alex: We should circle back with tim.  

Dan: Right granularity of issues describe above?

PROPOSAL : Close issue 76, open 3 new issues, the *** stared issues above.

Travis: tim says the protocol should be redesigned. [some wordsmithing of above] (paraphrase from: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76#issuecomment-140483668)

[general consensus on above as good]

Dan: Any news from TC39 Alex?

Alex: yexterday shared array buffers (threading for javascript) got to stage 2 - people will try out implementations - bunch of questions about how this works with existing structures in the DOM - and data arrays with eg. web audio. 
Just a "coming attractions".

Travis: shared access to these data arrays would only achieve true parallelism when accessed from environments in different threads (e.g., Workers vs. UI thread script right?)

Alex: right.

/adjourn
