Minutes of TAG Call 29 June 2016

Attendees: Dan, Andrew, Hadley, David, Peter, Alex, Travis

Chair: Peter
Scribe: Dan

Regrets: Mark

Stockholm Planning
--
dan: logistics-wise, we are all set. 
.. reached out to marcos and cwilso to talk about WICG. They were both enthusiastic and happy to join. I'll set that up in the afternoon.
.. we also wanted to have that accessibility discussion. We should at least see about inviting Leonie, if not others (please send me details of those who were in our last discussion about it).

Peter: ... http workshop ... what's happening?

Tokyo planning: Due to a conflict with Chrome Dev Summit we may move the November f2f to the previous week - the first week of november...
Andrew to check dates.


Peter : Relative URL issue -  ISSUE-118
... push state in relative URLs...
Alex: filing a chromium bug...
David: other thing - it should be considered a bad practice to push state to something that's a different directory so that a relative URL would ...
Travis: Also filing an issue. (https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/issues/8038408/)

Peter: if you inject a base element or change the URL of the base element... anything that changes the base URL - then you have stylesheets and images that resolve to different URLs because they were using relative URLs...
... makes pages in an inconsistent state ...

Peter: ... we will follow up on it when we have some more concrete data...

WAPA proposal and performance observer...
... punted.

Triage of a new issue - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/121
Readable streams - 
Peter: anyone want to take this?
Travis: yes please.

Triage: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/120
Performance API security & Privacy
Raised by mnot
Alex: I mentioned earlier this year the issue of directed visitedness... We are looking to change how to calculate what is and is not a visited URL. Part of the issue is you can't get fine grained info on how long it took to draw somehting on screen...
... subject to timing attacks...
... can be used to learn where you've been to example.com
... all browsers have miitgations in place but most of them don't work.
... our solution was to have a low res of delivery of ... events...
... to get finer grained info - one solution might be changing... how to calculate that...
... default browser behavior is to mark these differently - many sites override this and set them to be the same... scope of potential impact... 
Dan: Is "we" chrome or chromium?
... this would be a chromium change.
... if anywhere in your current profile you have visited example.com then you will mark a link as visited...
... proposed change would be to only color links on acme.com to example.com if you think that acme.com could have 
... already know that.
... So search results for example.
... but some other things maybe not - only where the first party could have known...
Hadley: why important?
Dan: Privacy
David: ...
Alex: you could say - a link to example.com should be colored ...
Dan: What for the tag?
Alex: there is an API design question - is global visitedness vs. directed visitedness the right approach? Is the trade off worth it if we can delivery better APIs? Granularity of APIs can be finer. The principle of API design that people are working 
... toward: don't leak things about the user behavior that they didn't tell the site in question.
Travis: Some CSP thing?
Alex: maybe we should do directed visiteness on sites that ask for it - and therefore they get higher resolution in their APIs.
... one of the big issues is iFrames...
... if you have an iframe from a 3rd party with opacity and a transform - you set a policy about visitedness you have to make it transited.
Peter: if example.com says yeah go ahead and leak the visitedness - that doesn't necesarilly involve the user...
Alex: sites will already know certain thrings through referer headers....
Peter: Same origin URLs.?
Travis: he could make a pull request to our API design guidelines?
[nodding of heads]


