TAG call 11 May 2016
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/05-11-agenda.md

Present: Dan, Hadley, Mark, TimBL

Regrets: Peter, David and Alex

Topic: URNbis
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/117
mnot: URNbis is a working group in IETF.  They should be entering last call soon.  the URN Semantics Clarification document, by John Clenson, says: we want to clarify the semantics of URNs by saying "yes they're still URIs but without sematics implied by RFC3986".  Fragment identifiers in URIs are resolved on the client side; but if this goes through that's just syntax now.  So they're stripping URNs to the point that they're only syntatically URIs, no other way.#
...As the TAG, do we care?
...Personally, I'd rather it go further and say URNs aren't URIs at all.

Timbl: First, for them to not use a URI-like syntax and not be URI compatible is broken. I|t's an architectural fault. Because they're URIs, code will do URI things to them. For example, fi you're in a doc identified by a URN and you click on a link, at the moment that processing will happen.
...One of the interesting clarifications there: he talks about how the semantics of a URL only work after it's been referenced. That's a misunderstanding. Because, when you do a retrieval, you look at a content spec and it must tell you how to interpret the fragment identifer, they assume that's where the meaning comes from.  But with RDF, it isnt'  --- just tells you it's the next spec to look at.  They're just syntax.  Different systems can use the fragment identifier sytax in different ways.  Some people say URLs don't mean anything until you've done a retrieval, which is not true. They do mean something regardless.

mnot: that makes sense. 
    
mnot: Do we want to write a TAG position on this?

timbl: If they don't want to use relative URIs -- are they using a / or just a colon?#

mnot: Not sure; there are a lot of history in this community.  Clear that the URN community has gotten pretty far from the rest of the web stack.

timbl: Are you up on that history?

mnot: Not really.  I'm up with the longer term history of why we need URNs, but I need to dig into the recent developments.

dka: So maybe we do need to respond? what's the user community?

hadley: user community is the data community

mnot: library sciences area... protocol folks tend to use [tag URIs] rather than URNs. The IETF has many communities.

Tim: one thing about URNs... People were offering URN resolvers.

Mnot: doesn't seem to be as fashionable as it used to be.

Hadley: Catalyst for this?

Mnot: uers want to make things that look like URIs but aren't URIs... That's speculation...

Hadley: does the IETF do use case docs?

Mnot: Sometimes.

Timbl: could we ask them?

Mnot: I can try to bring back more information.

Timbl: DOIs ... orcids ... valuable to publishing community.   Important for citation.  Important to academic communoty... 

Hadley: We had someone from cambridge working with GS1 - barcode for consumer goods - with us in data on web working group. He was working on something to mint a URI for any barcode. We do run into trouble when canonical reference datasets like that are not being properly managed and are being centrally managed.

Timbl: at the moment you have to go to doi.org and read up on the API. [centrally managed] The barcode would be a useful service... For example reordering - [lots of use cases.]


