Some problems with the call scheduling - wrong time given out to Nigel so we are having some issues this week.

Present: Dan, Hadley, Peter, David, Andrew, Yves
Guests: Glenn Adams, Nigel Megitt

--
Glenn:
on Question on styling - in TTML2
		Had to go behind HTML styling to handle things not handled in HTML/CSS
		HTML5 allows a "text track" allows insertion of content into in-band video to represent captioning and subtitle data
		Set of HTML5 APIs - could support direct consumption of this in the browser
		Right now only the IE browser handles it directly
		The TTML2 adopted widely - mostly in organizations such as Netflix, HBO, BBC - mezzanine format - subtitle and captioning storage
		Not many embedding it in actual video
		MPEG4 defines how to embed TTML and TTML2 in streams
		We tried to adopt other tech not invent - we used syntax of XSL-FO.

Nigel :
		this is both a web platform thing and a stand-alone thing - there are implementations e.g. in TV platforms that are stand-alone implementations
		we've tried to make sure that it's based on... ttml was from xsl-fo
		with ttml2 we are using [concepts from] CSS - aligning with the vocabulary of CSS - some features go beyond CSS
		The other browsers (besides Edge) dont support CSS primitives - mean we have to roll our own TTML players...
		Some implementations based on native stacks....
		We have CSS in the charter as a group to go to for review - we don't want to diverge.. we are trying to do it in an aligned way.

Peter: 
		I get the intent but I don't recall in CSS hearing from TTML asking for features
		...some guessing of

Nigel:
		We've discussed particular features with people - key individuals in CSS community

Glenn 
		I've discussed new features with CSS people - a few things we are taking to CSS group in this review period
		One is to do with background height for in-line non-replacable content [discussion on that]
		Some ruby text advanced semantics - with no CSS solution

David:
		there were some CSS properties I was concerned about

Nigel:
		One of the things that could raise a question mark is syntax rather than semantics - using our own syntax
		that is historical

Dan:
		that was one of the things that came up in our discussions

Glenn: 
		In TTML we made a decision to based it on XML so we went with XML-FO and SVG and SMIL
		Historical - at this point given the wide dissemination of TTML we are not proposing any changes to the syntax in TTML2
		Main things we are adding are embedded images, referencing fonts and audio content. Also conditional processing. Somewhat akin to switch statement in SVG and SMIL
		And then a set of new style properties - define extensions - international content more effectively

Hadley:
		Question of profiles

David:
		In terms of things that get implemented in browsers, profiles haven't made sense. The wordld of what browsers do has been a single thing rather than profiles.

Nigel:
		Since this has been adopted across multiple industries. Also HBBTV - we need to target user agents that get updated frequently but also embedded devices. That market
		wants stability. Cost of change is very high. Feature set that TTML offers is broad. We find that specific parts of industry only want to use specific parts of it.
		The cost of non-support of a particular feature might be content that is n't accessible.
		So having a profile mechanism ... [is important]
		People are taking that up. Lots of orgs creating their own profiles.  TTML profiles registry: https://www.w3.org/TR/ttml-profile-registry/

[some discussion on HBBTV - evergreen web - web profilings...]

Glenn: 
		we are looking at a subtitle or caption box... rather than full web ...
		questions - e.g. ruby or not, does the presentation require use of ruby or not...
		TTML2 doesn't compete with HTML and CSS - trying to adopt existing W3C techs ... it only adops the model of XSL-FO- doesn't require use of an XSL-FO processor

Nigel:
		In terms of dependencies on XSL and XLST - the dependency is on the vocabulary. 

Peter: 
		if I am building a browser and I want to use TTML2 - I want to be able to re-use bits of engine that I already have - that is my concern about where things are converging.

Glenn:
		At every step of the way this subject comes up and we discuss how we can optmise use of existing presentation engines ... 
		in fact - we have the idea of an HTML Cue interface which might allow javascript to render its own TTML into HTML/CSS and populate are of the video that uses HTML/CSS rendering

Nigel:
		Yes I would really support this - frustrating that browsers "fight it" - there are players but they have to be javascript players - that turn TTML into web content to display on top...
		Basic Div p span structure supports that well.
		Worth noting - it's not the only way of doing it.
		only thing that's less clear is - styling in way CSS does with selectors.. that's implementation dependent.
		Difficult problem space: For example - i author my subtitles to be in a good place and in a good size avoiding important parts of the video, displaying all the text etc... then one of my audience members wants to make it 3 times as big, either covering up some of the video or losing text, i.e. losing important experience... it's an unsolvable problem.
		with media queries and ttml2 it could supported from authoring side...

[discussion on HTML Cue ... ]

Glenn:
		4 approaches we've seen - 1 . have browser natively support TTML 2. deliver it as HTML (a. represented in HTML/CSS, b. render in SVG c. render to vector image). i've seen all the last 3 techniques used.
		industry has been forced to use those other approaches
		two that give the best results are SVG and image approach. Image approach doesn't scale well. Though being used by Netflix.
		SVG approach requires fonts to be rasterized on client device - therefore added support for font downloads


Dka:
		The area the TAG would most be interested in helpng with is this convergence problem.  To Peter's point, if we can help think about solutions for that, or how to push things in that direction — we'd be keen.  In the context of the Extensible Web, we've talked about js rendering... we've been strong about exgtending the web using components. Thinknig about js as a core piece of hte web platform, how script can be used to extend capabilities on the web — that's in the Houdini Task force. Feels like some of that thinking might be useful here. But needs more discussion on this topic.  We'll go away and think about that, and discuss with you further. 

Nigel: 
		the idea of html inports - loading and unloading content at well defined times .... would be helpful.

Hadley: 
		you have the main use case -  are there others?

Nigel:
		probably many, too many even to think about - anything that syncs content with media or with live events...., advertising, content enrichment etc.

Glenn:
		Presentations with timing, animations, effects....



