
Attendees: Dan, Peter, Hadley, Travis, Andrew, Alex, Mark

--

New issue was opened recently:
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues
#104 IntersectionObserver (from the Web Incubation Community Group)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/104
https://github.com/WICG/IntersectionObserver/blob/master/explainer.md

Travis: Fix common performance problems on websites to fix scrolling problems...  technique currently employed is terrible for performance. Causes a lot of jitter and stuttering. Intersection observer, brainchild of Alex Russell - new kind of observer. Observes the element's location relative to the active viewport. lets you know within a certain threshold the viewport... done in such a way that browsers can optimize effectivelt. Avoid jitter. At MS we've reviewed it and we're OK with the spec as as. Google as the sponsor is happy with it. Goolge's intending to ship. soon.

Hadley: Any knock-on effects? Sounds very specific. e.g. what is going on in the DOM. Are we adding another layer of complexity? Any untentended consequences? Or are we confident it's tidy enough?

Travis: 
    Google's Intent to implement: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!msg/blink-dev/eLxh8xUp3j4/m7RH4_nLBgAJ
    
Andrew: Lazy loading important for most publishers. Pages are getting bigger so images below the fold are not loaded until you scroll below the viewport. We like it at the FT.  It makes sense to me.

Dan: Where does this go after WICG?

Travis: It would flow to web platform working group.

Dan: Is there any thing specific they want from us?

Andrew: one comment: I don't see a timing element. I I fling the page to the end do I trigger every element on the way? Typical lazy loading would have a timing input.

Hadley: that's the kind of effect I was worried about

[discussion]

Peter: some example code for ad impressions. Timing might be the implementer's responsibility.

Alex: [on timing] there is an option now the threshold. Initial version didn't have a time threshold. Under the assumption it would be straightforward to do it yourself. We have intersection ratio. One key motivating spec is viewability by IAB. Specifies things have to be on screen and more than 50% viewable for 1 congig. second. You take records about that intersection. Those events will be fired frequently. So you watch this yourself.

Andrew: it fires every time you move a pixel.

Alex: yes.

Peter: also fire due to layout, stylistic changes?

Alex: to what extent do we want this to fight the arms race against all manner of transformations...? In almost every use cases it doesn't matter... these items are often in iframes.

Peter: if something is animating in a transform this will fire as things enter and leave the viewport?

Alex: Yes records will be delivered.

Alex: worth noting: there are a bunch of questions in the anti-spam vein about opacity. And those may not be answered here.

Hadley: could this info be used for browser fingerprinting / misused?

Alex: Only one new capability - it is now possible for you from an iframe - from a different origin- to know when you intersect with the root viewport. You can know when your iframe scrolled into view.

Dan: does that mean you can know how big the viewport is? And was that possible before?

Alex: [yes sort of]

Alex: way people do this today in desktop - because plugins have implemented a set of optimisations about when their paint loop executes - you get throttled when you're off screen. What apps do today is you host independent one-pixel-sized flash things at the edges of your viewport.

[collective sounds of horror and gnashing of teeth]

Dan: all im hearing about is about ad - anything about fixing the problems with scrolling?

Alex: two things - one is the scroll link effect - puts in an ad that  ; replace content that jumps into the page later once it's replaced. Progammatic injection of dynamic ad inventory. They don't know the size ahead of time. Makes the page jump. There's work happening to peg the scroll position to the offset...  this won't have an impact. this is targeted at ad analytics want to know when it's on-screen. We'd like for them to do it in a [more efficient] way. The other one is the infinite scroll case. Today in order to delay loaded content you want to get a sense for velocity. This will give you an idea to how far in advance to start prefectiong content. And to allow you to know when things leave the viewport.

Mnot: reducing friction for advertisers also encourages certain behaviours? 

Alex: If the web is abusive then people will want to use something else.

Mnot: if the web gets to the point where someone goes to the effort to build another one... 

[some philosophical discussions...]

Mnot: I'm ok with this - we're helping advertisers and doing work to help users.

Alex: We've run this past the teams on the ad serving side at google - they want this too. One of the reasons people use ad blockers is [to do with performance]. And this could help with that - perceived performance - issue.

Alex: it's targeted at improving performance of the mobile web.

Hadley: As long as this doesn't get in the way of ad-blockers... it does sound like it's an architecture of the web problem, and this looks like one way to make the architecture of the web better.  (Despite the fact that many of us don't like the experience of ads)

Andrew: Advertising is a key use case for the web and the web architecture should support it as a first class thing.

Dan: Kind of +1 but also we echo Hadley's comment that we should not be against ad blockers either.

Peter: If we have features like this that are trying to help advertisers should we have an ad tag?

Alex: it's not just for ads - also for infinite scroller... specific issue on mobile device... 

Peter: larger question - should there be an ad tag?

Dan: any new items we should be looking at - for the spec review issue list?

Andrew: the "seif" issue - ? 

Peter: no need to have an opinion on that

Mnot: we just got a bunch of comments on client certs. I've seen folks noticing that recently - we might get some more feedback on it.

Alex: something that comes up is the CORS question. I've been thinking about ways we think about the need for CORS... Use case: build a podcast app on the web platform. |as a lack of opacity.

e.g. if I call the fetch api and I get a cross-origin response back with no cors response then I get an opaque response - so the question is what if we though about audio and video as types that need to be opaque by default...


