Attendees: Peter, Andrew, Hadley, Travis, David, (Alex by IRC/etherpad)

TAG Meetings

Scribe:  Hadley

Topic: review window.visualViewport API

topic: 

	* review WakeLock API - Travis

The API for keeping the device for going to sleep -- like when you're watching a movie. It's a boolean property, and you assign it to true to stay awake. That instructs the user agent to try to keep things awake, but isn't a guarantee of anything.  I like the simplicity of it because it worksgreat if you're a user agent that doesn't support it -- the worst thing that happens is you set the property and no exceptions are thrown.  Flip side (though these aren't deal breakers): it's not an extensible feature.  \If you want to parameterise your request to stay awake, for example "please stay awake for 2 hrs" -- that isn't supported. Supporting that would be an entirely new API
peter: you could set a time to clear the flag though, no?
travis: yes, it could be easy.
What are you as app developer -- what would you do if you try to set this and the system can't do it?  You can prompt the user to wiggle the mouse every few minutes -- but that is still status quo.  So this is a best effort. Effective if you're the top-level browsing context or the same URL -- this request can't come from content not directly specified by the user.  You assume the user knew what they were doing by going to that top-level browsing context, so we can assume permission.  A frame from anohter origin doesn't get that privilege.
As a result there is no permission prompt for the feature. Tehre isn't extra infrastructure to tell you if it's engaged, to override it... you can just request it.  Well described lifecycle: user can reclaim the lock at any time. It's not even a lock in the semaphore sense. 
Nothing controversial here or against web architecture. Simple, well thought-out. Only open questions: is this good enough for al lthe scenarios? Will they consider adding more features? Maybe they don't need to?
They mentioned: if there is another kind of power management property you want to add: like "please enable high CPU usage", or some other form of locking -- then you would add a new property somewhere else.
hadley: where?
travis: they don't specify.  This spec is only about keeping the screen from going to sleep.
andrew: are we concerned about hte spec not requiring user agents to surface the wake-lock state to the user?  If I'm a user and I have normal expectations, if it stops doing that and I don't know why... would I think the device was faulty?
travis: I have an example: I will sit down at my PC and watch a video on Netflix.  It doesn't go to sleep after 10 mins like it normally does.
andrew: that happens in iOS too. But you'd be used to that, as a user.
travis: I'm not sure a user could become concerned.... If there was a user agent notification to the user, or some indicator that this webpage is keeping your screen on, and to dismiss that, all you have to do is close the tab or the application hosting the platform... then that's one opportunity to do that. Are you suggesting the spec should address that?
andrew: yes.  To be compliant, it might be good to surface that to the user.
travis: I'm not sure the user woudl care about it. If the user is holding/using their c, and they push the power button -- it should turn off.  Wake Lock shouldn't stop that.
peter: iOS will do this, but only if it's plugged in.  Might be nice to have an indication.... maybe not mandated, but maybe note the UA might want to do it.
andrew: maybe leave to UAs to decide
travis: that's hard to put into the document.
andrew: if you're using a device that doesn't do multitasking on browser tabs, like iOS or android, is wakelock still engaged if I have it in a tab in the background?
travis: No; you have to have the page visible. It's in the spec.
andrew: on desktop too?
travis: yes, I think so
andrew: Makes sense.  Contributes to the argument this is an uninvasive feature that doesn't need to be surfaced to the user. 
travis: Yes. Again, no harm in suggesting it as a possible browser feature.
andrew: if the developer doesn't get any feedback the wakelock request was successful... are we providing a feature not as nice as you'd get in a native app?  Could we extend the spec to contain a few events, so when it's engaged you receive an event. And if it's disabled, you get a different event? 
travis: playing devil's advocate, what would you do with that event beyond having piece of mind?
andrew: Yeah, I hear you. I feel like it's reasonable, but it may not help here.  It seems like something I'd want to know.  If there's no use case, then there's no reason for it.
peter: Alex was asking this on IRC.  Corrollary: there's no way of notifying the developer that the screen is not awake, on the current page?
travis: page visiblity events?
andrew: could be a proxy for that. To show you your wake lock isn't working.
travis: usually that happens because the entire system is going in to a low power state
peter: in the case of a music streaming app, it's fine to let the screen sleep by the music should keep going
travis: pandora too
andrew: so should we noted page visibility events should respond to the wakeful state of the device?  Is that a property of the existing screen sleep behaviour?
travis: Fair question. We get to think about that. I think it would be helpful.
alex: (from IRC) So at some level, I'd like to see WakeLock look like all of our other permission-based APIs
22:28 you should be able to introspect it w/ the Permissions API; requesting it should return a Promise, etc.
22:28 and releasing it should work the way releasing other permissions works (not that we do a lot of that today, but the Permissions API should support that)
22:29 I find it deeply problematic that the developer can't know if they'll actually GET wakeLock
22:30 related: this shouldn't work inside an insecure context
this is _literally_ a power-ful feature ;-)
22:31 I'd prefer to see an API that folks into Permissions
22:31 e.g.:
22:32 Permissions.request("wakelock").then(....)
22:32 and Permissions.release(...)


andrew: wake lock is secure contexzt only?
peter: don't think it says.
andrew: we should give that as feedback
travis: that would change their design, giving you the result of the actual wakelock state, not the request for it.
andrew: if the simplicity means it can be implemented quicker, then that's good. But consistency is good too.
alex: I don't see real simplicity here. It's only implementer simplicity. How am I meant to make UI for a game, e.g., that requres this?
alex: If the argument is that this is simpler, introducing a brand new API contract that isn't introspectable easily strikes me as working against the grain.
david: what happens if you request the permission it in a background tab and then switch the tab to being in the foreground... what happens? Is that accounted for?
travis: I think so . If you use a promise, the implication is you resovle the promise once wakelock has been established.  This is a transitive feature that can be acquired and lost, depending on what the user is doing. Not like a promise.
andrew: So if you set it in the background, queue it up as an asychronous task... that fits the model of promises.  But what happens if you background it and then reestablish it in the foreground... what happens?
peter: I think you keep getting it whenever you're eligible for it.
andrew: if the initial request was a promise, then it should be resolved immediately. 
travis: not a good pattern for a promise, unless there is a separtate request you can track against.

alex: hrm...do we need an event? For the case Andrew mentions?
travis: yes, probably. Or we don't surface it at all. I'm on the fence about whether it needs to be more heavyweight than it is.

andrew: is that enough feedback?
travis: do we have TAG concensus about needing to know the wakelock state. 
hadley: state of the request, or state of the screen being awake?
andrew: or are you awake when you shouldn't be? 

alex: is there a use-cases doc or explainer anywhere?
hadley: +1
peter: yes: https://w3c-webmob.github.io/wake-lock-use-cases/
travis: it's fantastic.

hadley: what bad things can we do with this?
peter: kill their battery
andrew: use it so people can watch ads for longer
atravis: only when those users set their device down and walk away. Most use cases are when you're looking at flight status, or something you don't have users interacting with
andrew: or a countdown timer for users...
travis: if it's facebook, I'm going to be interacting with it. When I'm done I'll close it.
andrew: as long as wakelock isn't active on the tab unless the tab is visible... this should be fine. 
alex: +1; this use-cases doc is AMAZING. Great work there.
travis: potential for abuse are in the use case doc 2.3.  
peter: If the screen is locked awake, that should presumably keep the system awake. If the page has access to other things (geolocation, camera, etc) that's privacy invading, this could extend the window of access to that. User may not expect that.  The page could just display solid black and trick the user into thinking it's asleep when it's not.#
travis: current workaround: play a hidden video.
hadley: I guess if we're only setting a UA flag, there isn't any data leakage. I'd worry about more data about the user's behaviour going to the developer though. (Those events)
andrew: whether we have events or not -- that's compatible with the existing API. So we could do that later. So now, if we just look at the request API... if it's better to move to a promse one or something that integrates with permissions... we should address rthat now.
travis: if you're moving to something more complicated than this, I don't think a promise can do it. Open questions: user permission needed? We have concensus we shouldh ave them add in it should be a secure context enabled feature.
andrew: I'd be in favour of secure context over explicit user consent
travis: we can postpone our feedback for another week.  They want this by end of Aug... That buys us time for Alex to write down his comments, we can start a discussion.
all: sounds good.
Peter: Alex, can you take that action?
travis: I'd like to assert that I'm comfortable with the API as specified. As andrew said, right now we can add more notificaiton about hte state of wakelock later.  Because this is a boolean with no inline feedback, maybe there is another property that is the actual state and then an event that says turned-on and turned-off.  I don't see it needs to be integrated with permissions. But I could be convinced otherwise
andrew: I agree on permissions. I think the API question is if we want to extend it. Starting with a boolean property could create a messy legacy though. But it's not the end of the world.  Just a property
Hadley: true, but it's also a new feature. More there to consider.
hadley: I'm okay with not having permissions; I htink this is in line with what users would expect.
andrew: autoplay... if you can do it passively, that's a bit strange. 

alex: Yes. I'll do it today in our issue. Sorry for the ad-hoc review. I should have read this one after we talked about it in Stockholm

topic: device ID discussion

travis:  I looked into four of the different specs Hadley uncovered during our f2f. WebMIDI, which as the device ID as an ID property off the port object.  Has a name and a manufacturer.  It is expecting a persistent device ID.
WebBluetooth, you get a bluetooth device object with an ID property.  That device has a name, a GATT and a UUID (a list that that bluetooth device supports).  There is a high integration of the permissions API; they've subclassed the (bluetooth) permission status object, which you get via a promise. The devices are ok to persistent assuming you get permission.  
MediaCapture and streams - you get a device ID from a media device info objject.  They recomment it be persistable, but there is a separate state not exposed to the app that the UA can modify: whether or not to store a permission to make the device ID persistent
Network service discovery: you get a device ID from a network service object (ID), and it has a name, type URL.

So there are four examples.  Almost alll expect a persistent identifier. 

Also webAudio, which attaches to an existing audio source. doesn't need to manage device IDs.
Haven't yet looked at screen capture, etc.  

Here's the IDL i'm working off of:

	// cloneable and transferable
	interface IdentifiableDevice
	{
	  stringifier readonly attribute DOMString local; // default
	              readonly attribute DOMString? uniform; // null if no permission, etc.
	  Promise<DOMString> toUniform(); // async to allow permission UI if necessary
	}

My initial thought: play a game where we refactor all these situations that request a device ID, and instead of returning astring, we have it return an identifiable device object. From that, you could ask for the local device ID and the uniform (persistent) device ID.  The persistent one would not be available by default. You'd have to do something like call this method to allow it to integrate to the permissions model.  Interesting thought experiment because you can make this fit into the existing features pretty seemlessly, but there ar ea few cases where it won't work.  We could think more about this.  I need to write this up with use cases and expectations.  But as an alternative, we might just have a standalone thing that allows you to take any device ID and turn it into a persistent identifier. So we don't retrofit existing features; could be safer.

In either case, features that reutrn device IDs would always return local IDs for that session. For a persistent ID, you'd go through a choke point, like this, to transform it into one.  When the user clears data, make clear these persistent IDs get replaced, and teh UA has to maintain a table to mappings. 
hadley: so persisten IDs aren't persistent?
travis: within the scope of "not being totally trackable".  So clearing them would make you appear to be a different user.
david: there may not be 2 cleanly-divided categories here.  per session, or where the current behaviour persists across sessions.  Some ids domain specific.
hadley: exapmle?
travis: webUSB. You get an identifier thats' only good for the origin that wants to use it. But to request htat USB device from a different origin, you'd get a different identifier
david: I think so. I'm not sure how long those last.
travis: there may be room to talk about how origin plays into it.  Rather than alwasy having a scrambled local id, it might be safe and useful to make it origin-tied within a session. So within a couple of browsing contexts in the same origin, they don't have to do anything unnatural to coordinate acorss sessions.

peter: next steps?
travis: Me writing this up.  Push the issue to... sept 7.
peter: we'll have to go through and review everywhere this will be used... make sure it will all work
travis: and it's a breaking change if we're asking these features t oswitch to another persistence model than they currently have.
