TAG Teleconference
10-Feb-2016

Present: Peter, Travis, Mark, Hadley, dbaron, Yves, Dan, TimBL
Guests: Ted, Adam, Kevin, Tobie, Paul

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/02-10-agenda.md

Scribe: Travis

Topic: Automotive API

Ted: This isn't about cars on the web, but is rather about using a web front-end (browser interface) between human and machine (car). Data flows from the vehicle (various sources) into a browser runtime. 

Approach: Using WebIDL. Group also considered (is considering) a Web Sockets interface. Some feel we could solve more use cases by not requiring a browser (e.g., web platform). Others are concerned about the difficulty of running/maintaining a runtime (car server) to handle arbitrary web sockets requests. The subscribe/unsubscribe model helps to keep things lean on the server (doesn't have to be up and running all the time?) Concerns about how to manage that interaction between client/server when using Web Sockets.

Manufactures may not have ...
Lots of modules in the car (lECU Electronic Control Unites for things ike remote start) that are independent and have their own power systems/settings.

Issue about API refactoring: Is this friendly for web devs? Is it "webby?"

VehicleInformation+Vehicle Data Specs. All interfaces are extensible to allow new features to be added without changing the architecture.

Values: grouped data is important. Easier for consumption.

Data Broker = ECU on the vehicle that interfaces with a wider network.

There is a large amount of data arriving at many different intervals. It's a very busy network. The concern is that producing these signals can really be costly. This is multiplied by the various Zones in the car. Might be mitigated by some sophisticated garbage collection.

David: Q for Ted: you're using a web front-end to interact with the car. Is that front-end being used to interact with other things as well, or only the car?
It might also be used to access alternate data feeds. Some apps might combined data from the vehicle with other sources.
David: I see implications on security.
Kevin: Manufactures can't just expose CAN signals to anyone. Ex: assisted driving systems where you can set brake, accelerator, steering. Those settings need tightly managed access for security. If these settings were included in the spec, then we'll need some kind of secure gateway between applications so that only authorized users can set these signals.
Ex2: remote control of cars using an app (loading/unloading cars, backing up, etc.) you might want to be able to do this from a secure, trusted app (not just anyone).

Variable set APIs are read-only at the moment (so this is somewhat future-thinking).

Other security concerns such as PII and user data. If you can get the VIN and history locations, or GPS locations, then this could be considered PII. May need to control access to it.
Travis: same concerns for a home-automation system.

We are coordinating with the IOT folks. They are working on guidelines and best-practices.
Hadley: we sympathise with this. This is what we see being discussed as well. Keeping users PII secure in the browser.

Seems easier to implement security on high-level API.

Tobie L (from sensor API): His approach is to think of the car as a collection of sensors. (Many hundreds, or thousands.) You could take one approach and use a very low-level API to process each signal. The higher-level API abstracts groups of sensors/signals into areas (like a door, tire, various parts of the vehicle). We do this becasue we feel it is easier for folks developing infotainment systems to use.

Debate has been: expose a low-level and very powerful API to directly access the raw signals.

Travis: semantic meaning is probably the right abstraction to land on--versus something too low-level; cites example of DOM keyboard events that are powerful, yet hard to make accessible.

Hadley: wondering if a more flexible web architecture is useful?
Tobie: we ruled out a sensor-based approach quite a while ago (reaffirmed on call yesterday https://www.w3.org/2016/02/09-auto-minutes.html). Today, we're looking to find the right primitives for the cars. People are thinking about these as events on some kind of event bus (of the car). Go with a more web-based API (rather than low-level sensor read/write).

Issues are now clearly: event model vs. subscribe model, AND browser vs. not browser (and object leveling--where the data lives)

Hadley: I encourage you to think about the real magic in data exchange is the 'unanticipated' (what you didn't expect). Consider exposing the data in a way that devs may not have optimized.

Use cases were supposed to support in-vehicle infotainment apps in a developer friendly way.

I'm keen on ensuring that the client can release work performed by the vehicle.

Travis: On record, I have no strong opinion on which way the API design lands (subscribe/events). I had other notes regarding the APIs which I included in last weeks meeting minutes. https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/03-02-2016-minutes.md

plinss: are you interested in these APIs being built into any browser, or just systems designed to interface with cars?

Kevin: Much of this work came from prior-art in other languages (expectations were for vehicle-specific browsers). Systems that use this API probably aren't going to be running while the car is powered down. Some systems like wifi/mobile networks would be listening (these are specific ECUs). The head-unit wouldn't be active. This doesn't mean that when a manufacture implements the spec, that they didn't do it by wrapping CAN signals, and exposing it to a JavaScript library running in a browser process in the vehicle. It's possible that the modem/system could interact with other ECUs in the car (wake them up with various signals). There's a trade-off with battery life.

Hadley: certainly makes sense given what happens on a laptop/desktop. These things are usually down the network stack.

Ted: To me, seems like we had some kind of consensus on the call yesterday, that implementing this as a websocket/service may be a way forward.
Kevin: I still have concerns with this: you potentially subscribe to recieve a number of different things on the same web socket, and don't close it until you are all done. This keeps it open potentially longer.

mnot: Websockets are like TCP for the web. You can pretty much do what you want. My concern is that its a very low-level facility. You basically design a new wire-protocol. Are you building something that the rest of the web can use?
Ted: Well, it's not meant for the rest of the web. It's for very controlled access.

Tobie: This [websockets approach] is based on IOT handshakes, and use websockets for getting events. (Use websockets as the transport--not build everything using that tech.) You want the runtime to be able to subscribe data feeds, and use web sockets to relay the sensor data.

Paul: In my company we found that websockets work well for integrating with an embedded OS. Lots of people on the call liked the idea of some kind of service.
Seemed nice. Don't have to maintain WebIDL bindings, can be maintained separately.
Kevin: pretty clear for OEMs that they need secure gateways to protect its signals. Those secure gateways enforce isolation (by design) of some systems in the car.  Makes is possible for a number of things to access those signals. Manufactures can avoid implementing separate intra-signal communications from those published to the infotainment system (APIs). 

Tobie: another benefit: more implementors could jump on board. Seems close to what OpenCore is doing.

Travis: I have no objections!
Hadley: Me too. Perhaps some misunderstandings between what we've talked about and what's in the spec.

Ted: might be more than a few weeks to re-align on this new approach vs. what's in the spec today. I'm hearing a lot of coalescing of ideas in this call between Tobie and others.

plinss: have you talked to the folks doing self-driving cars? Wondering how much more sensors, etc., may be coming from that direction. Just curious...

