TAG Teleconference
6 Jan 2016

Filename 06-01-2016 ?? whatever happened to string order   2016-01-06 #justsaying #w3cstandard

Present: Dan, Hadley, dbaron, mnot, plinss, Yves, TimBL, Travis

Agenda
		* agenda bashing for f2f
		* Agenda for Summit
		* DOMError -> DOMException in Indexed DB - 
		* Triage: 451 Question
		* Confirm March F2F dates/location

--

Issue 88 - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/88

Travis - there's always been a domexception type that you throw under various conditions - now there's a "domerror" - form valudation feature in html5 needed this. You run this automated process and it gives you a set of potential errors. Functions almost identically to domexception except it's a state instead of a notice. 
...Consuensus emerged in webapps group that it was a mistake to make a new thing. The discussion is referenced in the issue. Broad consensus was reached - domerrortype was removed from the dom spec. Why this has
...come up again is that some impleentations are updating to match the change. Now they're asking if that's the right thing to do.
David: Seems reasonable to me but I wasn't involved in the [discussion]
Dan: has anyone done the "science" on how much web content this will break?
Travis: i don't believe that's a strong concern - when the domerror was created its values were made to match those of the domexception - so there was parity already. Switching the type out shouldn't impact any code.
Dan: so LGTU?
Travis: yes looks easy.
consensus: doesn't look like a big issue - "we provisionally say it sounds good pending feedback from Alex"

--

Confirming March F2f - 
Dan: We are set for March 29-31 in London - between Hadley and I we'll be able to work something else.
Mnot: [may have some difficulty will confirm soon]

--

Issue 99 - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/99 
Dan: Jo Rabin raised this on 451 error code. Mark did you take a look at this?
Mark: 
Hadley: tricky from a legal perspective. Copyright in the US has gone from civil>criminal. Now a take-down request might come from the government so might feel more like other crimes.
... in other countries copyright is a civil activity so may not be appropriate to use 451.
... it interests us as TAG members because we have an interest in the web.
... but I think we need more interest in seeing the community experiment with different use cases and make sense of it. I can't think of an opinion we have as the TAG.
Mark: 451 was intended to capture the case where you can't send the content because of somethign being imposed upon you - whether legal, civil, whatever. We need to see how it gets used.
... we talked to a number of people in the process. DMCA takedowns is one of the core use cases. But that doesn't mean you don't need a lawyer to use it.
Hadley: it doesn't have any legal standing. The community will...
Mark: unless you're under a gag order.
Mark: I'd encourage him to engage with the community [in the IETF group] that has thought about these issues. Not much more 

Consensus: mueahhe?
Mark to redirect.

--

Any topics for next week?

Travis: I've had some good FIdo discssuions - well versed now. We should have a good discussion.
Dan: i think reading the fido submission is pretty important: 
    Required reading list: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/01-mel/reading.md
FIDO Submission: http://www.w3.org/Submission/2015/SUBM-fido-web-api-20151120/
