*TAG Teleconference – 22 Feb 2017 ; 21:00 UTC
San Francisco (U.S.A. - California) Wednesday, 22 Feb 2017, 13:00:00 PST UTC-8 hours
Boston (U.S.A. - Massachusetts) Wednesday, 22 Feb 2017, 16:00:00 EST UTC-5 hours
London (United Kingdom - England) Wednesday, 22 Feb 2017, 21:00:00 UTC
Paris (France) Wednesday, 22 Feb 2017, 22:00:00 CET UTC+1 hours
Tokyo (Japan) Thursday, 23 Feb 2017, 06:00 JST UTC+9 hours
Corresponding UTC (GMT) Wednesday, 22 Feb 2017, 21:00:00 

Scribe: Travis
Attending: TimBL, Travis, Peter, Alex, Yves, Dan, Andrew, Sangwhan, David, Hadley
Guests: Joshua Bell + Victor Costan (IndexedDB 2.0)

*Call Agenda

	* Note to AB (for tomorrow when Dan will join the AB call)
Dan has a call scheduled with the AB. Would like to give them a chance to read this before hand, and it [kinda/sorta] needs to represent our concensus. 
Andrew: Generally-speaking it hits the right points. Alex trimmed the fat, and its much better now. At the end, the paragraph about requesting guidance- should we in fact be asking this question of them?
Alex: LGTM++
Hadley: Yep, agree.
Dan: I want to avoid a process flame war if we re-open the TAG charter to revision.

	* WASM https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/151
[jumping in!]
Alex: This has taken me some time post TAG f2f to sort out. 
Design Goals (as we understand them):
    * Thought someday it would be the assembly for the web... not yet.
    * No FFI (Interop with outside world--like DOM). Must hop in and out of JavaScript to do any work.
    * Source compilation: WASM folks expect this can take some time. They expect retrieving the thing after compilation will allow them to avoid the compile time a second time.
    * Modules: They are opaque. The module represents some machine-specific details. (e.g. by being binary code)
    * Structured Clone: Shared Array Buffers are limited to same-origin transfer (informed by Domenic D). This enforcement will be in the structured clone algorithm in the HTML spec.
    * Structured Clone for storage: hugely contentious! WASM wants "better than cache storage" for their ArrayBuffer. (Provided by local storage, idb, etc.)
    * Use case: building a runtime for a new language. The system will do frequent compilations on small modules (quickly compiled). This is done in the JIT process. They want a small synchronous compilation method (because some languages may not be able to support an async return model).
    * Spec authors want a guarantee that modules won't be discarded, but don't want to spec the inner-details of the format that would make it concrete. 
Current State (existing implementations):
    * Put in a limit of op-code to the synchronous compile methods (4K)
    * Firefox shipping
    * Edge in preview (flighting)
    * Chrome implementing behind flag
Changes Requested (by Alex):
    * Allow the compile method to take a Response object (allows streaming).
    * We [TAG] can help: Add a non-normative statements about saving/restoring cached compiled code, and stress this behavior in test suites.
    * Open question about storage.
    * What are the use cases for the synchronous APIs?
    * There's still an opportunity for change (while implementors are not shipping in their stable channel).
    * WASM could get a mimeType
Chrome shipping process may change to ask for TAG review earlier. (Friction arose when we found issues at what they thought was the end of the feature's process.)
   * How to apply CSP? (It's like a new eval in essense.)
   * Should we allow only on [SecureContext]? Can't see a particular new capability that this opens up that would require it, but open to others.
   
    
	* Media Session https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/149


	* Media Capture DOM Element https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/130


	* Performance APIs https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/120


	* Remote Playback https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/145


	* Custom Paint https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/140
We received a response from Ian K. on this issue. Those of us assigned, please go take a look.

	* MediaStream Image Capture https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/133


	* IDB 2.0 https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/153 (Asked to be added from slightlyoff)
Some folks from Google have joined us to chat about this: Joshua Bell and Victor Costan
Other browsers have shipped a large number of these features. We've been asked to review (at a late stage). Many of these are not contentious issues. Some of the larger concerns about layering are not addressed. Josh continues to work on Promise integration. Major addition is the support for Binary keys.
Josh: Binary keys is a the most "subtle" new feature. The most interesting algorthmic request is "continued primary key". Authors want to be able to "resume" iteration of an index.
Alex: How does this work with transaction lifetime?
Josh: No change.
Alex: is this an efficiency gain?
Josh: yes. You would have had to iterate to the resume location.
Alex: getKey no objectStore?
Josh: primarily symmetry with indexes (can pass object store or index)
Alex: any objections to what we see here?
Victor: no
Travis: no
Alex: shipped in Firefox, behind a flag in Chrome.
Sangwhan: pwnall noted the rename being needed for ORM use cases, I'm just curious why that applies in a "upgrade" scenario - I'm guessing that's related to upgrade giving completely exclusive access to the database?
Victor: Yes.
Dan: propose to close the issue out.

	* Process improvements postmortem


