28 march 2017

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/03-28-agenda.md

Present: Dan, Peter, Hadley, David, Yves

Scribe: David
Chair: Peter

[ Peter looks through agenda and tries to determine which agenda items actually have people present for the items ]

#necessaryhashtags

[ some discussion about linking to blog post from TAG blog, and linking to encryption finding ]


Dan: sangwhan put some notes into the chat about remote playback.  Concerned about it being a wrapper around various proprietary transport protocols rather than defining one.
sangwhan: "API wise I'm pretty fine with what is there, but no transport standard is problematic and I don't think we should give the spec the TAG seal of approval due to this."
[ some discussion about AirPlay and Google Cast ]
Dan: so last week we were talking about asking this group - what does this have to do with the web - right?
sangwhan: "Not really. By rslgtming this, we are suggesting that implementation/remote device coupling is fine. If I own a Apple TV, I'll be forced to use Safari to stream, even if my main browser is Vivaldi. I don't think that's something we want. We'll end up with content developers sniffing for devices and implementations, which I'm pretty sure we don't want to advocate anymore"  
                       " It's a reasonable use case, being able to send a youtube video to your big screen... I can see people using this."
Dan: "so i guess the issue is to ensure that there is a common API to whatever proprieraty thing is underneath - and that the webapp doesn't have to know?"
Dan: We're going to find the same issue with Web Payments.  Companies have their different on-device payment tech.  If I have both Android Pay and Samsung Pay, I should be able to integrate with whatever.  I feel like wrong direction, where browser linked to on-device payment tech.
Hadley: yes, layered interoperability definitely much better.
sangwhan: "No, I think the transport should be mandated in the standard. Like we do with HTML video elements.
                        The webapp really shouldn't have to care if I have a Android TV or a Apple TV."
Peter & Dan declare consensus between the folks on the call and sangwhan on chat.


[ some discussion of AMP ]
Dan: concern about press writing articles that conflate AMP and Web / Progressive Web Apps (PWAs).  PWAs is a good trajectory for the Web; this is damaging to it.
Hadley: but I think AMP is gaining traction because mobile web not doing its job; bad user experience from too-heavy sites.  I wonder if better mobile sites would solve some of the problem AMP is trying to solve?
Dan: Or same thinking, but more webby url-centric approach?  Just making experience fast.  Performance on the Web is about both performance and the Web.  Can we say that?
Dan: Question is whether TAG should have a blog post on this.
Hadley: I think parts of this are definitely about the architecture of the web.
Peter: Turning Web into a centralized resource can be efficient, but that's not what we want!
Hadley: the privacy implications of granting all Google access to an API (like webVR) when one publisher has asked for it... makes me uncomfortable.
Dan: Interaction with per-origin permissions is important.
Peter: suggestion of a formal TAG post on this?
Dan: I can offer to Andrew to help put that together.

Peter: Sangwhan left comments in chat about the dev event.
