TAG Teleconference – 05 July 2017 ; 15:00 UTC
Attending: Peter, Dan, Hadley, Andrew, David, Sangwhan

Call Agenda

Followups:

Spec style/structure checklist - Alex

Current Issues (close or assign new dates?):

script type=module - Dan

	Dan: Domenic asked us to review his post https://blog.whatwg.org/js-modules
	David: Alex might have more insight.
	Peter: wait for alex?
	Andrew: it's basically a done deal - what can we add?
	Peter: we haven't had much involvement
	Andrew: I'd like to hear what alex thinks
	Peter: defer to the f2f 
	Sangwhan: the type modules doesn't look like a valid mime type...  (see comment in blog post) - i tend to agree with this remark (From: https://blog.whatwg.org/js-modules#comment-162659 )
	Peter: should there be a mime type specific to modules?
	Sangwhan: at some point we might get web assembly modules
	Andrew: i think it could make sense to have a mime type
	[discussion on this point...]
	Hadley: it's being tracked in whatwg issue 443 in html... https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/443#issuecomment-167639239
	
Web Payment Manifest - David / Andrew

	Andrew: It's still a no-op - no feedback so far Maybe close?
	Peter: push to f2f and do a rquick review then...
	

Off-Screen Canvas - Travis

	[punt to f2f]

WebAssembly Response API - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis

	Sangwhan: they are chartering a wg so after that we can chase them down a bit more easily
	Hadley: do we want to put anything into the chartering process?
	Sangwhan: no not really
	David: I can help find these people.
	[punt to week before f2f]

Private Browsing

	Hadley: putting together a blog post - outlining threat models and differences in browser implementations, etc...
	...and addressing the issue that not having a standardized private mode makes it difficult to reference to private mode from other specs...
	...a call for finding the overlaps - that would be useful to standardize...
	...plan is to publish this as a personal blog post - Dan & I had talked about putting a piece of it on the TAG blog to encourage community discussing
	Peter: Sounds OK
	Dan: +1
	
Triage:

First Paint Timing https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/177

	[assigned to david, assigned to week before f2f]

Image Decode API https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/182

	blink 182
	[assigned to Sangwhan]
	Sangwhan: it's an improvement over using onload handlers... decode basically defines a promise based API to allow browsers to pull it off of the main thread
	... the order of operations is different.
	... this basically lets you decode without having it in the document... it prevents weird jank...
	... the API itself is fairly straightforward.
	... Had one small question about progressive JPEGs. I think the explanation they have is good enough.
	Andrew: does it allow images to be created without... decoding them?
	Sangwhan: yes
	Andrew: i think all browsers download & decode when you set img.source ...
	[discussion on implementations...]
	Andrew: otherwise LGTM
	Sangwhan: it allows implementations to pull decoding off of the main thread
	David: this code in Gecko has changed many times...
	Dan: does it allow offloading for optimisation?
	Sangwhan : thinking behind it is that it pulls it off of the main thread so at least you can have a separate thread doing it..
	David: I'm worried about an API baking in assumptions about how browsers work.
	Andrew: there are some situations where an app's performance can be impacted by whether the browser chooses to decode
	... images on download or not. FT for example downloaded many images to store them for offline use.
	... would prefer to have fine-grained control over download vs. decode vs display.
	Peter: is the decode thing of a full processing pipeline that's fully defined?
	Sangwhan: asking browsers to change their implementation... 
	Peter: my only concern here - are trying to define something that varries from implementation to implementation...
	Dan: could you make an img tag component with this?
	Sangwhan: no. - it's part of the img tag.
	Peter: what do we want to do?
	Sangwhan: are there implementations that pre-decode images?
	Sangwhan: I can test it and we can get back to it at the f2f... 
	Peter: yeah let's do that and get feedback to them?
	David: another issue where implementations can varry - animated images might differ
	Sangwhan: a non-normative note saying that animated images would be available only after all the decoding...
	

OpenType Variable Fonts https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/183

	[david to take a look]
	[assigned to f2f]
	
