27 June 2017
TAG Call

Dan, Peter, Andrew, David, Tim, Hadley

--

Distributed content finding - 

Andrew - asked Malte offered to join the call 18 July (week before f2f)
Dan: same origin is fundamental to the web
Tim: sometimes I have to fight the same origin policy - e.g. mashups - also things we're doing with SOLID require a global identitifer. Browsers are fighting that because their model is: you log into a bank you do the bank business, then you log out.
...[however] AMP URLs suck.
...AMP is an example of a problem...
... should the TAG formalize this? Wou
Tim: Viewer application URL and Content URL...
Andrew: where we may end up is endorsing a solution that could have the same benefits
Peter: mechanism to sign the content so the ultimate viewer can have some assurance the content is from where it claims to be from
Agreed to have Malte join us on the 18th.
Dan & Andew to work on agenda.

-- 

Agreed to move 7-4 meeting to 7-5.

--

TTML2

Dan to correspond with ttml 2 people and arrange a session at f2f.


-- 
Next topics for f2f

Dan : other topics for our f2f?
Andrew: working on varry... new proposal from MNOT ... In fastly we're looking at implementing...  vary to be deprecated favoring "key". 
... URLs for 10 variations... in vary. Key makes the implementation much easier. But it means key doesn't cover all the use cases.
... creating a complex architectire.

Hadley: net neutrality as a new topic?  FCC stuff happening here. What can we do at the tech level to mitigate against...
... EC is working on updating e-privacy directive... manding DNT.
... Tim (mandatory in server or browser)?
Hadley: and x-device fingerprinting
Andrew : user required to make choice to turn DNT on? another gen of cookie warnings?
Dan: Invite Lukasz? https://twitter.com/lukOlejnik/status/875712621877624832

Andrew: [performance] budget API - another possible topic for the f2f 
... CDNs allow customers to purge objects from a cache... but you can't reach into a browser cache to take it, except if you could send a (web push) notification... 
... we could enable advanced mechanisms like this...
... for certain types of data.. the browser is allowd to share that data once the user reaches some heuristic of engagement... [e.g. go on regular basis]
... [maybe invite whoever is working on budget API]
